Search forth for the meaning here, 
Hidden within these words 
4Tis a song that's sung of fallen tears, 
Given way for two love birds. 
Love birds yet not of feathered creed 
Shot down for gambled play, 
And caged a far distance betweenst themselves 
For the hunter felt it best that way. 
"She bird is mine," the hunter said, 
'Twas this bird I raised and faithfully fed." 
'Twas he bird who released her from her cage, 
Sought her womb in youthful age. 
Love birds the name, these birds they call, 
Two, plural, love bird, takes two. 
'Twas not her womb of which he sought, 
And certainly not her youth. 
Love birds, the name these birds they call, 
Two, plural, love bird, takes two, 
It's just that he needed she, 
To fly the skies of blue. 
And now we see the hunter man, 
Robbed without a prey, 
The evil which he sought to do, 
Caused the birds to pass away. 
For loneliness and solitaire, 
Is death to every soul. 
For birds of God were meant to pair, 
The two to complete the whole. 
And now we see the final meaning 
Of this rhyme and verse: 
The pending judgment of the King 
Who rules the universe. 
Page 1 For with Adam and his spirit Eve, 
To share the kingdom fair; 
But when they sinned they lost their crown 
In exchange for shame to bear. 
So Eve travailed and brought forth death, 
And passed the crown to all; 
For each to learn the lesson here, 
The kingdom of the fall. 
For virgins do not bring forth sons, 
Until God does reverse, 
The inner meaning of the law, 
To remove man from the curse. 
For in the Christ, we've seen a bride, 
The water mixed with blood, 
The wife with cloven tongues of fire, 
Of whom the Christ has loved. 
And now He's back to sing His song, 
The life of every spring, 
And love birds gather, each one with mate, 
For the marriage of the King 
Page 2 INTRODUCTION 
John 18:33-38 
[Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and called Jesus, and said unto him, Art 
thou the King of the Jews? Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others 
tell it thee of me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and chief priests have 
delived thee unto me. What hast thou done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world; 
if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered 
to ihe Jews; but now is my kingdom not from here. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a 
king, then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end I was born, and for 
this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone that is of 
the truth heareth my voice. Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, 
he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all.] 
Strange indeed for the judgment of man, for who knows within himself that his judgment 
be true? 
Scripture tells us that Pilate was convicted of the truth in Christ, but failing to take heed 
thereto, he lost his soul, causing the blood of the innocent to be shed. How many of us since 
the dawning of time have committed such things? Who was this Jesus? Who was this Saviour 
that nearly a whole religious nation rejected? 
Matthew told us. Mark Luke, and John all recorded their side of the story of which 
remains unto this day, read and judged of all. Likewise, the Acts, the Book of Romans, 
Corinthians, Ephesians, Galatians, and such books open for our learning this most unique 
mystery of judgment and justice undone. But of all the records the most awe inspiring remains 
to be the most misunderstood, that being the Revelation of Jesus Christ written by the Apostle 
John to the churches of Asia and left on record that all who follow may ask the question: 
"Who is this Christ and what remains to be the mystery of Him?" 
In my work to unfold this mystery to you I will not use great techniques of scholarly display 
nor indepth reasonings of philosophy, no sophisticated, congenial language shall be used, just 
simple talk and reason. 
First of all, the Revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave unto Him to show unto His 
servants things which must shortly come to pass are to be seen just as that: a revelation of 
Jesus to reveal to men His wishes and His desires for those who make up His church. For the 
kingdom of God being that of heaven, and not of this world, is to be revealed unto this world 
by the means He has chosen-the foolishness of preaching. John the Apostle while on the Isle 
of Patmos received the Lord's messenger and in obedience placed in written form all that he 
saw and all that he heard pertaining to the mysteries of Christ. And in good faith the Apostle 
Page 3 stated, "Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep 
those things which are written therein for the time is at hand" (Revelation 1:3). 
Likewise John was commanded of the angel, "Write the things which thou hast seen, 
and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter" (Revelation 1:19). Simply, 
John's record contains the past, present, and future events that revolve around the Revelation 
of Jesus Christ. John in faithfulness sent his writings to the seven churches in Asia and the 
will of Christ for these churches is plainly revealed from chapter 2 to chapter 4 of Revelation. 
Therefore on record, all may read and see how Christ has dealt with His churches of old. 
Our subject of interest will be taken up from chapters 4-22, for these passages entail the 
events that are to be after John's time. For it is written (Revelation 4: entire chapter): 
[After this I looked and, behold, a door was opened in heaven; and the first voice 
that I heard was, as it were, of a trumpet talking "with me; which said, Come up 
here, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter. And immediately I was in 
the Spirit and, behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne. And 
he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone; and there was a rain­
bow round about the throne, in sight like an emerald. And round about the throne 
were four and twenty seats, and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, 
clothed in white raiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold. And out of 
the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings, and voices; and there were seven 
lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God. And 
before the throne there was a sea of glass like crystal; and in the midst of the throne, 
and round about the throne, were four beasts full of eyes in front and behind. And 
the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a calf, and the third beast 
had a face like a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle. And the four 
beasts had each of them six wings about him, and they were full of eyes within; and 
they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, who was 
and is, and is to come. And when those beasts give glory and honor and thanks to 
him that sat on the throne, who liveth forever and ever, the four and twenty elders 
fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth forever and 
ever and cast their crowns before the throne saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to 
receive glory and honor and power; for thou hast created all things, and for thy 
pleasure they are and were created.] 
John states that "that which must be hereafter"~sometime after his day there will be a God 
who sits on His throne. There will be a jury of twenty-four elders. God will be declared as 
"worthy" to receive glory and honour and power," because unto Him and for Him all things 
were created. 
John continues to say (Revelation 5: entire chapter): 
[And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and 
on the backside, sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with 
a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose its seals? And no man in 
Page 4 heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to 
look on it. And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and read 
the book, neither to look on it. And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not; 
behold, the Lion of the tribe ofJudah, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the 
book, and to loose its seven seals. And I beheld and, lo, in the midst of the throne 
and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as though it had 
been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes which are the seven spirits of God 
sent forth into all the earth. And he came and took the book out of the right hand of 
him that sat upon the throne. And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and 
four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps, 
and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of saints. And they sang a 
new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open its seals; for thou 
wast slain, and has redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and 
tongue, and people, and nation; and hast made us unto our God kings and priests, 
and we shall reign on the earth. And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels 
round about ihe throne and the beasts and the elders, and the number of them was 
ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud 
voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, 
and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing. And every creature that is in 
heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all 
that are in them, heard I saying, Blessing, and honor, and glory, and poower be 
unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb forever and ever. And the 
four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshiped 
him that liveth forever and ever.] 
Very clearly John tells of a judgment in which only one question is asked, "Who is wor­
thy" to open or to reveal a book found in the right hand of God clearly sealed with seven 
seals. John states, "No man in heaven nor in earth, neither under the earth was able to open 
the book neither to look thereon." Then John is pointed to the hope of all men: the Lamb that 
was slain. Here is a revelation of Christ as our High Priest in heaven. Here His work is 
revealed: the opening of the mysteries of God. These mysteries of which reveal Christ and 
His sufficiency to save all whose prayers are directed to God through Him. Likewise Paul the 
Apostle has stated: 
[So also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest, but he that said unto 
him, Thou art my Son, today have I begotten thee. 
For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did, by which 
we draw near unto God...But this man, because he continueih ever, ham an 
unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore, he is able also to save them to the uttermost 
that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. 
But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is the 
mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises. 
Page 5 For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which are the figures 
of ihe true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us; 
But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the 
right hand of God, from henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool. 
For by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified.... For if we 
sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no 
more sacrifice for sins... of how much sorer punishment, suppose ye, shall he be 
thought worthy, who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God, and hath counted the 
blood of the covenant, with which he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done 
despite unto the Spirit of grace? 
For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched, and that burned with 
fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest.... See that ye refuse not him 
that speaketh. For if they escaped not who refused him that spoke on earth, much 
more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven.] 
Hebrews 5:5; 7:19,24-25,; 8:6; 9:24; 10:12-14,26,29; 12:18,25. 
Clearly then, John is showing us of that very event of which Paul the Apostle so clearly 
writes. Christ is the mediator of the New Covenant and that New Covenant is contained in the 
seven seals. If we the church have been so long awaiting that which must be hereafter, why is 
it that so many of us in Christendom have not even heard of the seven seals? 
Why is this Revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave to Him such a mystery? The 
Apostle Peter gives us a clue when he said (1 Peter 1:3,5): 
[Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who, according to his 
abundant mercy, hath begotten us again unto a living hope by the resurrection of 
Jesus Christ from the dead ... who are kept by the power of God through faith unto 
salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.] 
Truly Christ is our only Saviour, our only Mediator between man and God. Likewise, it is 
true the opening of the seven seals by Christ is as much or more so important for our salvation 
as any other former gospels. If this salvation is "ready to be revealed in the last time," as 
Peter says, then we should hear another statement from the Apostle Peter (1 Peter 1:13): 
[Wherefore, gird up ihe loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the 
grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ] 
So the question remains—What are the seven seals? And the answer remains—a Revelation of 
Jesus Christ which God gave unto Him to show unto His servants things which must shortly 
come to pass. If these things were to have shortly come to pass then surely they must have 
already been fulfilled, and if so, does that mean we are His servants if we know these things 
not? Or could it be that the things which must be hereafter pertaining to God's throne, the 
judgment, the book, and the Lamb receiving that book are events directed primarily to the last 
times or the last days? If that's the case are we in the last days? If so then it must be time for 
Page 6 God's servants to know these things (Psalms 90:12-17; 91:1-4; 11:3-4). The servant of God 
will find as we continue in our searching of the scriptures that every book of the Bible meets 
and ends in the book of Revelation. Gems of most sacred truth are to be uncovered, golden 
promises never before seen are to be brought to view, for when has grace ever been needed 
more than now in the time of which we live? 
Page 7 CHAPTER 1 
THE FIRST SEAL 
Although we, the servants of God, do not live in Asia, we are none the less to be 
beneficiaries of their counsels; and they likewise, not being alive today are no doubt to be a 
part of the grace which we are to receive. 
Revelation 6:1-2. Here in our Heavenly Zion we see the Lamb loose the first seal. This 
preview of God's revelation of His Son is to be of our utmost interest, for not only will it 
more clearly reveal the nature of Christ, but it will likewise unfold more clearly the Divine 
nature of God who is the Author of this revelation. 
Now let's turn to Psalms 45 
Verse 1: "My (God's) heart is inditing a good matter: I (God) speak of the things which I 
(the Creator of all things) have made touching the King (Christ), my (God's) tongue is the pen 
of a ready writer." Here we see God not only creates all things by His Word but in His wis­
dom, He has chosen some things to be written that by the power of His word He may bring to 
pass in His own time. Here we see God by His written Word foretelling his determined pur­
pose for His Son, Christ. 
Verse 2: "Thou art fairer than the children of men, grace is poured into thy lips; therefore 
God hath blessed thee forever, Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory 
and thy majesty. And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and 
righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things." Clearly in the Revelation 
Christ is fairer than the fairest. Those who receive the seals receive the grace found therein. 
Christ is capable of destroying his enemies for His majesty truly is great in heaven, for it is 
witnessed that all angels bow before him. What is it that Christ shall ride but the white horse 
because the book given to Him is the truth and He shall ride prosperously. 
Verse 5: "Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies whereby the people fall 
under thee." Here we see the meaning of the bow of which the first seal speaks. Let us pray 
that none of us refuse "Him that speaks from heaven " and the Spirit of Truth that is now 
speaking from heaven for it is likewise written in verse 6: 
"Thy throne O God, is for ever and ever; the scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. Thou 
lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God (Christ), thy God (Father), hath 
anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. All thy garments smell of myrrh, and 
aloes, and cassia, out of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad. Kings's 
daughters were among thy honourable women: upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold 
of Ophir, Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own 
people, thy father's house; so shall the King (Christ) greatly desire thy beauty; for he is thy 
Lord; and worship thou him." 
How can any man deny that the first seal is a preview into the event spoken of by the 45th 
Page 8 Psalm? How important is this insight? How important is it to God, or to Christ, or to the 
church? While on earth Christ spoke many parables regarding His kingdom and his bride. 
Let's hear one and see if we cannot more clearly understand the importance of these things. 
Matthew 22:1-14: 
[And Jesus answered and spoke unto them again by parables, and said, The King­
dom of heaven is like a certain king, who made a marriage for his son, and sent 
forth servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding; and they would not 
come. Again he sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them who are bidden, Behold 
I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and my failings are killed, and all things are 
ready, come unto the marriage. But they made light of it, and went their ways, one 
to his farm, another to his merchandise; and the remnant took his servants, and 
treated them shamefully, and slew them. But when the king heard of it, he was 
angry; and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up 
their city. Then said he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they who were 
bidden were not worthy. Go, therefore, into the highways, and as many as ye shall 
find, bid to the marriage. So those servants went out into the highways, and 
gathered together all, as many as they found, both bad and good; and the wedding 
was furnished with guests. And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw 
there a man who had not on a wedding garment. And he saith unto himn, Friend 
how earnest thou in here not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. 
Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and 
cast him into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For 
many are called, but few are chosen.] 
Notice that in this parable of Matthew, Christ clearly teaches that those with indifferent atti­
tudes who would not come to the Marriage Supper were to be slain. Their disinterest offended 
the King who we know is God. So, likewise, today if we disregard the truth of the first seal 
we really disregard Christ, who opened it and in so doing we disregard God who gave it. This 
indifference most surely will place one's salvation in jeopardy. 
Matthew 21:42: 
[Jesus saith unto them, Did ye never read in the scriptures, The stone which the 
builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner; this is the Lord's 
doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes?] 
In this passage we see Christ pointing his hearers to the Rock (His God). We know in Revela­
tion 4 God is pictured as one who appears to be as jasper and sardine stone. This one is the 
same stone to which Christ referred to. So again we are reminded that what the Father gives 
to Christ is a revelation of Jesus Christ that God-gives to Him to show unto his servants. 
Was it really David who wrote the Psalms or was it God who spoke through David? Was it 
really the prophets who wrote their books or was it God who spoke through the prophets? If it 
was God, we must conclude God claims the book as His and we should more earnestly take it 
as God's Word. 
Page 9 We find now in Revelation 19 a verification of the events we have just read. 
Revelation 19:1-13. 
"And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, 
"Alleluia! Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power unto the Lord our God; 
For true and righteous are his judgment; for he hath judged the great whore, which 
did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants 
at her hand." And again they said, "Alleluia!" And her smoke rose up for ever 
and ever! And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and wor­
shipped God that sat on the throne saying, "Amen! Alleluia!" And a voice came 
out of the throne, saying, "Praise our God, all ye his servants, and ye that fear him 
both small and great!" And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as 
the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying "Alleluia! 
For the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honour 
to him for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready. 
And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white for 
the fine linen is the righteousness of saints." And he said unto me, "Write, Blessed 
are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb." And he saith 
unto me, "Thus are the true saying of God!" And I fell at his feet to worship him. 
And he said unto me, "See thou do it not! I am thy fellowservant, and of thy 
brethren, that have the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus 
is the spirit of prophecy. And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse, and 
he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth 
judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire and on his head were many 
crowns, and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself. And he was 
clothed with a vesture dipped in blood and his name is called The Word of God. 
Notice how in verse 9 it says, "Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of 
the Lamb!" And he said unto me, "These are the true saying of God!" Being the true saying 
of God, the first seal of Revelation 6:1-2 must be true according to the saying of God in 
Psalms 45. And how can we be blessed if we know nothing about the Marriage Supper of the 
Lamb nor what it entails? 
Isaiah 33:17: 
[Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty; they shall behold the land that is very 
far off] 
Are we starting to see the King a little more clearly? And how about that heavenly land very 
far off? 
Isaiah 55:3-4: 
[Incline your ear, and come unto me; hear, and your soul shall live, and I will make 
an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David. Behold, I have 
Page 10 given him for a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander to the peoples.] 
Has not David truly witnessed on behalf of God by God's own power this beautiful marriage 
of which all are called to receive the knowledge of. 
Isaiah 61:8-10: 
[For I, the LORD love judgment, I hate robbery for burnt offering; and I will direct 
their work in truth, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them. And their 
seed shall be known among the Gentiles, and their offspring among the peoples; all 
who see them shall acknowledge them, that they are the seed whom the LORD hath 
blessed. I will greatly rejoice in the LORD, my soul shall be joyful in my God; for 
he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me with the robe 
of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, and as a bride 
adorneth herself with jewels.] 
We should surely at this moment realize the importance of learning more thoroughly the 
meaning of Christ according to the seals lest we be found without "the wedding garment" of 
God's judgment, for if we receive this enlightenment, this grace which comes from heaven, 
we shall surely be partakers of the marriage of the Lamb for we are the guests who will 
"Hearken and consider." 
Jeremiah 23:5,6,7,8,18,19,20: 
[Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will raise unto David a righteous 
Branch, and a King shall reign and prosper, and shall execute judgment and justice 
in the earth. In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely; and this 
is his name, whereby he shall be called, THE LORD IS OUR RIGHTEOUSNESS. 
Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that they shall no more say, The 
Lord liveth, who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt, but the 
LORD liveth, who brought up and who led the seed of the house of Israel out of the 
north country, and from all the countries to which I had driven them, and they shall 
dwell in their own land....For who hath stood in the counsel of the LORD, and hath 
perceived and heard his word? Who hath marked Ids word, and heard it? Behold, 
a whirlwind of the LORD is gone forth injury, even a grievous whirlwind; it shall 
fall grieveousty upon the head of ihe wicked. Then the anger of the LORD shall not 
return, until he have executed, and till he have performed the thoughts of his heart; 
in the latter days ye shall consider it perfectly. ] 
This beautiful prophecy, the Desire of Ages, entails of Christ the Lord our Righteousness and 
also warns us of the latter days should we be found not standing in the counsel of the Lord. If 
we, the church of God, stand in the counsel of Christ, especially in the light of the seven seals, 
shall we not be a part of that beautiful bride spoken of in Jeremiah 33? 
Jeremiah 33:14-16: 
Page 11 [Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will perform that good thing which 1 
have promised unto ihe house of Israel and to the house ofJudah. In those days, 
and at that time, will I cause the Branch of righteousness to grow up unto David; 
and he shall execute judgment and righteousness in the land. In those days shall 
Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell safely; and this is the name of which she 
shall be called, THE LORD, OUR RIGHTEOUSNESS.] 
She, the city, she, the saints, those who are clothed with the righteousness of Christ and His 
Word, for it is also promised in verse 17, "David shall never want a man to sit upon the 
throne of the house of Israel." For Christ remains a King "forever." (Psalm 45:6) 
Ezekiel 37:24-25 Daniel 12:1: 
[And David, my servant, shall be king over them, and they all shall have one 
shepherd; they shall also walk in mine judgments, and observe my statutes, and do 
them. And they shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob, my servant, in 
which your fathers have dwelt; and they shall dwell in it, even they, and their chil­
dren, and their children's children forever; and my servant, David shall be their 
prince forever.] 
[And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince who standeihfor the chil­
dren of thy people, and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since 
there was a nation even to that same time; and at that time thy people shall be 
delivered, every one that shall be found written in the book.] 
If we are to be found written in the book, surely we should be found in the first seal for there 
Christ is revealed, shall not we also be revealed as one who "hearkens and considers" for is 
not He "our Lord" and shall not we "worship" him "in spirit and in truth" (John 4:24). 
In Hosea 2:14 we read, "Therefore, behold I will allure her [and bring her into the wilder­
ness, and speak tenderly unto her]" The Christian Church being scattered from Jerusalem 
went throughout all nations. Being amongst the Gentiles, the gospel was to impart unto the 
Gentiles the riches of God's mercy. 
Verse 15: "And I will [give her her vineyards from thence, and the Valley ofAchorfor a door 
of hope; and she shall sing there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came 
up out of the land of] Egypt." Here it is promised that once the unfaithful ones as Achan are 
taken from amongst God's people we will definitely have a deliverance and all the prophets 
agree. 
Verse 16: [And it shall be at that day, saith the LORD, that thou shalt call me Ishi, and shalt 
call me no more Baali.] If we are to call God by such an endearing term, we are to know Him 
a little better and what better [way] to know him than in the revelation of Jesus Christ. 
Verse 17: [For 1 will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and they shall no more 
be remembered by their name.] All false teachers and false prophets are to be forgotten for 
Page 12 there is one God, and one Lamb and one seven seal truth. 
Verse 18: [And in that day will 1 make a covenant for them with the beasts of the field, and 
wuh the fowls of the heavens, and with the creeping things of the ground; and I will break the 
bow and the sword and the battle out of the earth, and will make them to lie down safely.] 
Just as Isaiah 11 has promised, so Hosea also promises, peace for those who are called to the 
Marriage Supper of the Lamb. 
Verses 19 and 20: [And I will betroth thee unto me forever; yea, I will betroth thee unto me in 
righteousness, and in judgment, and in loving-kindness, and in mercies. I will even betroth 
ihee unto me in faithfulness; and thou shalt know the LORD.] So again, here we see the 
importance of this opportunity of learning these seven seals and the complete entailment of 
what that includes. 
Verse 21: [And it shall come to pass in that day, I will hear, saith the LORD, I will hear the 
heavens, and they shall hear the earth.] Are we not a part of this event by faith? Is not 
heaven in total unity to the receiving of these seals from God? Is not God's word supreme in 
heaven? And it being the Word which reveals Christ now is the time like never before to pray 
that we may be worthy to understand these things more clearly. 
Verse 22 and 23: [And the earth shall hear the corn and the wine, and the oil; and they shall 
hear Jezreel. And I will sow her unto me in the earth; and I will have mercy upon her that had 
not obtained mercy; and I will say to them who were not my people, Thou art my people; and 
they shall say, Thou art my God.] We will not go at this point into the in depth meaning of 
the book of Hosea in every particular for our primary subject at this point is the first seal and 
the Marriage is that subject. This should inspire us to look into the meaning of Hosea 3:5 
"Afterward [shall the children of Israel return, and seek the LORD, their God, and David, 
their king, and shall fear the LORD and his goodness in the latter days.] 
Joel 2:15,16: [Blow the trumpet in lion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly. Gather the 
people, sanctify the congregation, assemble the elders, gather the children, and those that 
nurse at the breasts; let the bridegroom go forth from his chamber, and the bride out of her 
closet.] Yes, the bride is definitely to be revealed for we know that Christ is in the Heavenly 
Sanctuary anticipating His Marriage of which God has spoken. Should we not eagerly our­
selves be ready to accept this truth and come out of our closet and be revealed to the world as 
those who love Christ in truth and in righteousness. 
Amos 9:11,14,15: [In that day will 1 raise up the tabernacle of David that is fallen, and close 
up the breaches of it; and I will raise up his ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old ... 
And I will bring again the captivity of my people of Israel, and they shall build the waste 
cities, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyeards, and drink their wine; they shall also 
make gardens, and eat the fruit of them. And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall 
no more be pulled up out of their land which I have given them, saith the LORD, thy God.] 
Obadiah 21: [And saviors shall come up on Mount Zion to judge the mount ofEaau; and the 
kingdom shall be the LORD'S.] 
Page 13 COMMENTS AND CLARIFICATIONS 
Drs. James D. Tabor and J. Phillip Arnold 
David Koresh asked that his completed manuscript be given to us through his lawyer, 
Dick DeGuerin. Evidently he expected that we would read it with sensitivity and offer some 
reaction and evaluation based on our academic study of Biblical texts and our knowledge of the 
history of the interpretation of the Book of Revelation. The following preliminary comments 
will help the reader who is not technically trained in these esoteric texts to follow David's 
rather involved thinking and interpretation. Whatever one thinks of the Branch Davidians and 
their Biblical views, one can at least endeavor to understand their systematic interpretation of 
Scripture which they obviously found so compelling. 
The key to understanding David Koresh and his perception of his identity and mission 
clearly centers on one question taken from the book of Revelation—"Who is worthy to open 
the scroll and to loose its seals?" (Revelation 5:2). The text identifies a figure known as the 
Lamb, or "Root [Branch] of David" who alone is able to open this mysterious book sealed 
with Seven Seals (5:5). Traditional Christianity has, of course, always understood this one to 
be none other than Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Hence the endless confusion as to whether or not 
David Koresh actually claimed to be "Jesus," or even God himself, for that matter. This 
manuscript makes it clear that he claimed to be neither, despite all the confused and misleading 
reports about his self-understanding. However, he certainly did claim to be this Lamb who 
opens the sealed scroll, as well as the figure who rides the White Horse when the First Seal is 
opened, and appears at the end of the book, still mounted on the same White Horse, when the 
"marriage of the Lamb" takes place (Rev 6:1-2; 19:7-19). 
j Part of the confusion has to do with the use of the term "Christ." This Greek word is 
not a name, but a title. It means "an anointed one" or to use the original Hebrew word, a 
"messiah." All the ancient high priests and kings of Israel were "anointed," and in that 
sense can be called "christ" or "messiah." This is standard Biblical usage./ However, tne 
Prophets began to focus on a specific and ideal Christ or Messiah who is to come. This one 
was to be a "Branch of David," that is, a descendant of King David, and would rule as a King 
in Jerusalem, bringing peace to Israel and all nations (Isaiah 11:1; Jeremiah 23:5). This 
Christ, like David of old, is also called the "Son of God" (Psalm 2:6; 2 Samuel 7:14). David 
Koresh clearly believed that Jesus of Nazareth was this Christ. However, he also maintained 
that the prophets foretold of another "Christ," a Branch of David, who would appear at the 
end of time and open the Seven Seals. 
Psalm 45 is the key to the First Seal, according to David. Here the King is anointed, 
that is made "Christ," and rides his horse triumphantly (verses 1-7). This is parallel to 
Revelation 6:1-2 and 19:7-19—so this figure is none other than the Lamb. After conquering 
his enemies, the marriage feast takes place. This Lamb marries virgin "daughters" and has 
many children who are destined to rule with him over the earth (Psalm 45:10-17). Jesus of 
Nazareth, though anointed as Christ, never fulfilled this role 2000 years ago. Accordingly, Page 2 
David believed that Psalm 45, along with several other key Messianic texts, could not apply to 
this appearance of Jesus Christ of the first century. Jesus never married and had children, as 
this text requires. Psalm 40 also speaks of the same figure: "Then said I, Lo, I come; in the 
scroll of the book it is written of me, I delight to do thy will, O my God, yea thy law is within 
my heart" (verses 6-7). The text goes on to speak of this one as having "iniquities more than 
the hairs of mine head" (verse 12). This so-called "sinful messiah" is none the less the one 
written of in the scroll—which David connected, obviously, to the Seven Sealed Scroll of 
Revelation 6. The same figure is mentioned in Isaiah 45:1 and called by name: "Thus says 
the LORD, to his anointed (christ), to Cyrus (Koresh in Hebrew), whose right hand I have 
held, to subdue nations before him ..." This Cyrus, or Koresh, is called Christ. His mission 
is to destroy Babylon. Historians have understood the reference to be to the ancient Persian 
King Cyrus, who literally destroyed ancient Babylon. But there is a deeper spiritual and 
prophetic meaning according to Koresh, and for that matter, the book of Revelation. The 
whole religious-political system is called "mystery Babylon the Great." As the text says, 
"Babylon is fallen, is fallen," hinting at a double meaning and fulfillment (Rev 18:2). The 
last Babylon is defeated by the last Christ/King/Koresh, the "Branch of David." 
In his manuscript David barely begins to get into the many texts of the Prophets who 
speak of this "Davidian" figure (Jeremiah 23:5-8; 19-20; 33:14-16; Ezekiel 37:24-25; Hosea 
3:5). He makes the point repeatedly that this Christ comes in the latter times, and perceives 
that Jesus of Nazareth, who came 2000 years ago, never fulfilled these texts. The Lamb who 
opens the Seals comes right before the End, is humiliated and maligned, and like Jesus 2000 
years ago, offers the world God's truth. In other words, David was the actual, final 
manifestation of the Lamb, who will fulfill these prophecies regarding the Messiah. 
According to this perspective, the Waco standoff and "waiting period" was a test for all 
humanity. It did not have to end as it did. David believed that the world was being offered a 
chance to listen to this last Christ/Koresh, who could open the Seals, and thus show the way of 
repentance to our society. There was even an opportunity given for the actual decoding of the 
Seven Seals in written form, to be openly shared with all who wanted to hear. This was all cut 
short. The rejection and death of David, at age 33, around Passover time, became a strange 
repetition of the past. The Fifth Seal, which allowed for a time of repentance while the mes­
sage went forth, ended with the "rest killed" as predicted (Rev 6:11). The Branch Davidians 
now believe that the probation period is up, and the Sixth Seal of the Judgment of God is 
pending. 
The manuscript indicates that who respond to the message of repentance, who turn to 
God and begin following the Law of God, through accepting the Lamb/Koresh/Christ/King, 
will be invited to the "Marriage" feast. They are those "elect" ones who make up the Bride 
of me Lamb. As Koresh ends his discourse on the First Seal, this is mainly on his mind. 
Those who are truly part of the "Bride" are to come out of the "closet" and be revealed for 
who they are. Page 3 
The manuscript also carefully maintains the distinction between the God the Father and 
His Lamb or Messiah. In that sense David Koresh never claimed to be God. However, like 
the Hebrew Prophets of old, and like Jesus of Nazareth, he did claim to speak the words of 
Yahweh God (the Father) directly, and in that sense could use, as they did, the first person 
mode of discourse. 
The Poem and entitled "Eden to Eden," is quite fascinating. Like Paul, David implies 
that the "marriage of the Lamb" is a mystery which somehow rectifies what happened at Eden 
in the Fall (Ephesians 5:31-32). The physical sexual union ("the two shall become one 
flesh") has a deeper meaning, and involves the perfect bonding of "Adam and his spirit Eve" 
in the "new Man" to come. David taught the importance of the feminine side of the Divine 
and implies that Adam was created to express this dual image. However, through sin, Adam 
and his descendants were separated from the spiritual, feminine side, and remain in need of 
restoration. Through the revelation of Christ in the person of the Lamb, people are being 
reunited with their fragmented selves and gathered as lovers of God for the ultimate marriage 
union which will restore Eden. 
LITERARY ANALYSIS 
What evidence is there that David Koresh would have kept his pledge to "come out" of 
Mt. Carmel, as he stated in his letter to his attorney, Dick DeGuerin on April 14th? We know 
that the first chapter of this work was completed on Sunday evening, the night before the fire, 
and was typed onto a computer disk by Ruth Riddle. This disk survived the fire, carried out 
by Ruth Riddle in her jacket pocket. 
The existence of the manuscript itself, as well as internal evidence within the text, con­
firm that David was keeping his promise to produce an interpretive document. Such evidence 
also supports the view that David actually intended to lead his group out peacefully. A literary 
analysis of the text clearly shows that David was not merely "pretending" to write on the 
seals, and that his pledge of April 14 was not a con or sham. 
An analysis of this newly-released manuscript offers three reasons to conclude that David 
genuinely planned to compose a full written interpretation of the Seven Seals and that he 
intended, upon completion, to make this work available to the public. 
First, the form and structure of the manuscript indicate that David's efforts were genu­
ine, purposeful, and tangibly productive. After conceptualizing the project over that last 
week-end, David dictated to his typist on Sunday evening, April 18, in one long sitting of 
approximately four hours. The text consists of about twenty-five double-spaced pages of 
coherent and organized exegesis and commentary on biblical passages. Using both deductive 
and inductive logic, David presents his interpretation of biblical prophecy. Although his inter-Page 4 
pretation is unique in its specific application and reference, it is similar in method and style to 
other well known exegetes such as Isaac Newton, Joseph Smith, Ellen G. White, J.N. Darby, 
C. I. Schofield, or Hal Lindsey. 
The structure of the manuscript is well planned and suggests that the author took pains to 
organize it in such a way that it would be well-received as a readable exposition. For exam­
ple, the work begins with a preface consisting of a poem, written or arranged by David. The 
poem is entitled EDEN TO EDEN and contains fifty-two lines divided into thirteen stanzas of 
four lines of metered and rhyming verses. 
Further evidence of a careful hand at work appears in the section which follows the 
Poem. David entitles this section the "Introduction." It sets forth the hermeneutical princi­
ples and general themes which follow in the main body of the work. Following this Introduc­
tion the author begins "Chapter One," in which he turns his attention to the meaning of Seal 
One. 
Chapter One is subdivided into thirteen headings which consist of specific passages from 
the Bible. It remains to be seen whether these headings parallel the thirteen stanzas in the 
poem which prefaces the work. David comments on each of these biblical chapters and crea­
tively associated them with the First Seal found in the Book of Revelation. In this way he 
combines insights from the Old Testament and the New Testament using traditional Rabbinic 
and Christian exegetical techniques. He closes with a clarion call for his readers to consider 
his presentation and decide for themselves if it is true. The Chapter ends with two biblical 
quotations, offering a sense of closure in regards to the First Seal and expectancy regarding 
Chapter Two on the Second Seal, which would have been dictated at the next sitting—probably 
on the very day of the fire. 
The second indication within the manuscript that validates David's pledge to exit Mt. 
Carmel has to do with his intended audience as indicated by his style. Throughout the work 
David carefully directs his words to those on the outside of Mt. Carmel, assuming an audience 
who would not know the meaning of the Seven Seals. The vocabulary of the writer, and his 
style and approach, show that he expects his words will be read by non-believers outside Mr. 
Carmel. The implied audience is non-Davidian. This indicates that David wanted to persuade 
his hearers. He considered the delivery of the manuscript to his lawyer, Dick DeGuerin, as 
his God given task and privilege. 
Finally, specific statements in the text support David's pledge to come out. Ironically, 
the very last words we have from David in this manuscript read: "Should we not eagerly our­
selves be ready to accept this truth and come out of our closet and be revealed to the world as 
those who love Christ in truth and in righteousness?" David not only expects some readers to 
accept his teaching, but he also prepares his followers inside Mt. Carmel to "come out" of the 
center. This is seen further in his reference to Joel 2:15,16, which is quoted immediately 
before the sentence above. This passage orders those in Zion (read: Mt. Carmel) to "gather 
the people ... assemble the elders ... gather the children" and infants and follow the Page 5 
bridegroom (read: David), "from his chamber and the bride out of her closet." The 
Davidians understood other passages from Isaiah to refer to their refuge at Mt. Carmel as a 
"chamber" where they could wait for God's intervention. This use of the term "come out," 
drawn from Scripture, used in David's April 14th letter, and now appearing in the manuscript, 
clearly indicates what was on his mind. 