Fear is a very interesting subject. You don't realize so much of it is subconscious until you try to put it in words and try to analyze it. I suppose my being afraid to talk about my fears is one of the worst fears of all, because to confess your fears is really to expose your innermost self--the part you hide from everybody, even those dearest to you. In fact, the part you're even trying to hide from yourself, because you're afraid to think about it. You don't even want to confess it to yourself that you're afraid, because that would be admitting you're a coward, and you don't want to confess you're a coward for fear of being exposed.

Jesus, Lord Jesus, Thy will be done. Have Thy way. If we can help someone else by being honest, help us to be honest. Help us, Lord, to be willing to face our fears.

I guess it's kind of like a disease. You can't very well find the cure unless you confess you have the disease and you reveal the symptoms. And you're really very ashamed to confess you have it. It's one of those secret diseases that you're ashamed to confess you have, because you know it's the result of sin. Because if you're honest, you know your fears are results of doubts or feared failures--past failures or possible future failures.

I think the fear of failure is probably one of the greatest fears anybody could possibly have--the fear of failure in life, love, labor, and the Lord. If you're failing God, I think that's one of the worst for a Christian. And it's perhaps second only to the fear of failing others, because you know that God will forgive you, but others find it hard to forgive. The fear of hurting them because of your failure, fear of letting them down, disappointing them, hurting their faith, disillusioning them, discouraging them--the fear that because of your failure, others will fail, too. This is hardest to bear. It's the kind of thing you don't even want to admit to yourself.

The fear of failing yourself is least of all. Really, in a way, it's fear of the truth. You're actually afraid of the truth about yourself. But now here's where it pays to face your fears, because you have to draw a line of distinction by facing them, between that which is the truth and those fears which are the lies of the Devil.

It reminds me of when I was a little kid delivering papers and handbills, and there were all these big dogs that were always chasing me and nipping at my heels. Sometimes they actually bit me, and they really hurt. But most of the time their bark was worse than their bite. I soon discovered that, if I ran from them, they ran after me, and they were more apt to bite me if I turned my back on them than if I faced them.

A dog barks at you and growls at you because he's afraid of you. And it's a funny thing, the more afraid you are of him, the more afraid he is of you, because God put in him the instinctive knowledge that if you're afraid of him, you're apt to do something to him to protect yourself; you're apt to hurt him.

So, if he senses you have fear, right away he's afraid of you, and he's apt to bark and growl and possibly even attack you. But if you face him and stand your ground, no matter how much he barks and growls and snarls, he usually will not attack you. The very fact that you face him lets him know that, though you may be somewhat afraid of him, you're not too afraid. You're not afraid to stand there and face him. Therefore, he knows you're not afraid of him, and since you're no longer afraid of him by standing firm and facing him, then it lessens his fear of you, and he'll often back down, growl and snarl a little, turn his head away, and look for somewhere to go to get out of your presence, watching you out of the corner of his eye all the time. And then he'll usually back down and turn around and leave you alone.

I've had this happen so many times with dogs, both big and little. If you're so afraid that you turn your back on him and run, he'll chase you and even be encouraged to bite you--even the littlest dog--because now he knows you really are afraid of him. He knows you really are an enemy and his doubts about you were right, his fears of you were well founded. You've proved it by running. So he promptly takes advantage of your fear as you retreat, by leaping to the attack.

Nearly everybody who's ever been bitten by a dog was not bitten on the toes, but the heels; not on the shin, but the calf of the leg. Of course, some dogs are so mad or so diseased or so trained that they'll attack you to the face--sometimes demon-possessed--but even these can be rebuked in the power of the Spirit in Jesus' name.

I'll never forget when I was about 12, delivering handbills, and I had to go into a certain yard to get to a house in the rear. Out from the back yard came this huge Great Dane, barking and growling furiously, and coming at me full speed, leaping and bounding. I thought, "This is it!" But I knew I didn't dare turn my back on him or he would bite me for sure. Yet, on the other hand, he was a little too big for me to face, and I was invading his territory.

So I thank God I remembered to cry out to the Lord. I suddenly jutted my hand out toward him and I yelled, "I rebuke you in Jesus' name!" And did he put on the brakes! He skidded to a stop and looked absolutely startled, and turned tail and ran.

So it not only pays to face your fears and to acknowledge them, even confess them, but to take a positive stand against them, especially in the power and Spirit of the Lord with the promises from His Word. Because it wouldn't have done me a bit of good in the world to say, as a Christian Scientist, "Big old dog, you just don't exist, so I'm going to ignore you." He would have promptly finished me off to prove that he did exist.

It doesn't pay to say there's no Devil and no demons and no such thing as evil, sin, or sickness, and just try to ignore the facts. It would be like trying to ignore that you have a disease when you've really got it, because as long as you have it and try to hide it, you can't very well find the remedy.

Like the story told by Mark Twain about the fellow who fell off a cliff and broke so many bones, and the Christian Scientist came along and tried to persuade him that he didn't have any broken bones, it was all in his imagination. There was no such thing as reality. It was all in his mind, so he should just try to get up and walk. But the poor man couldn't make it.

And that's where you have to draw the line. You have to find out the difference between reality and the imaginary, the truth and the lie, because if it is reality, it doesn't do any good to try to tell yourself it isn't there--to just shut your eyes and hope it goes away, and when you open them again you'll find out it didn't exist, that it was just your imagination.

That big dog existed, and he was coming right for me, and it wouldn't have done a bit of good to shut my eyes and hope he went away, that he was just something I was imagining, some figment of my imagination. He was there, brother, and he was as real as you or me, and he was headed for me. And in that case, the best thing in the world to do was to face it and take some kind of action and do something about it to eliminate the danger, because it was either him or me. I did this by taking the initiative and launching an attack myself on him by the power of the Spirit, in that rebuke in Jesus' name. At first he was on the offensive and I was on the defensive, but the Lord helped me turn the tables by inspiring me to take the offensive and attack him with a rebuke--and suddenly he was put on the defensive and turned and ran.

As any military strategist knows, it's impossible to win a defensive warfare. Defensive war is doomed to defeat. To win a war, you have to launch an attack. You have to go on the offensive. You have to attack the enemy. You have to set him back on his heels. You have to take the initiative. You have to be positive. You have to attack and invade and overpower. You can't just sit there and try to ward him off while he attacks and invades, or he'll finally overpower you.

A passive defense never won a war. That's why it's usually the aggressors who win wars. They take the initiative. They launch the attack; they leap to the offensive, and they can pick the time and place, and do it by surprise and suddenness, so that you're caught off your guard, your defense is down, and you're overrun.

This is why guerrilla warfare is so successful, even with such small numbers and very little manpower. By sudden surprise attacks in unexpected places and at weak spots in the enemy's armor, you can do a lot of damage. You can hit and run before the enemy even knows what happened, before he has a chance to retaliate.

This is why conventional armies can be withstood or even licked by small-scale guerrilla warfare. A conventional army is a large, ponderous, slow-moving, though powerful giant, usually somewhat thick-witted and its reactions slow, because its body is so big that it takes a long time for it to move and for communications to get from the brain, headquarters, to the hand or the foot, and for them to react.

Whereas guerrilla forces and commando units are small, somewhat independent, and can choose the time and place of attack, with lightning strikes, and disappear as quickly as they appeared, like little David with Goliath: one little guerrilla defied a whole army; like Gideon and his little band: a bunch of guerrillas who defied a whole army; like Jonathan and his armor bearer; two more guerrillas who defied a whole army. And, boy, if you've got God with you, you're unbeatable, no matter how small you are! Jonathan said, in that particular attack of his, "God is not limited by few or by many" (1 Samuel 14:6).

Any military strategist knows that, no matter how small your forces, if you take the initiative and attack first--go on the offensive--you have a definite and distinct advantage over the enemy.

So it pays to face your fears, recognize they're there, decide between the real and the unreal, the truth and the lie, and go to the attack to dispel the vaporous fiction of the fairy tale and to drive away the genuine reality of real threat.

We're in a spiritual warfare, and our weapons are not carnal, but spiritual--mighty to the tearing down of strongholds (2 Corinthians 10:4). This is a picture of your attacking the strongholds of the Enemy and ripping them apart, destroying the opposition. Jesus said of the church, in Matthew 16:18, "The gates of hell shall not prevail against it."

When I was a little boy and I heard preachers use this verse, the way they interpreted it, it sounded as though the church was standing on a big rock, and, though all hell was pounding on its gates, hell couldn't triumph over the church. The whole way they had it pictured was the church building standing there on the rock, Christ Jesus, and the fires of hell were lapping against its fortifications. But the church was standing firm on the defensive, all bottled up in its little fortress, and hell and the Devil and all the demons couldn't get in.

But this is not God's picture at all. That isn't what the Scripture says. Jesus said it to Peter when Peter confessed that Jesus was the Christ, the Messiah, the Savior, the Son of God. Jesus told Peter, "Upon this Rock (the fact that I am Christ, the Anointed, the Savior, the only foundation) will I build My church." He was literally saying, "Upon Me will I build My church."

But now notice the rest of the verse. As Jesus continues His declaration, He says, "And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it"--the church. In other words, the gates of hell will not be able to defend themselves against the church. The gates of hell itself--the Devil's territory, his fortresses, Satan's strongholds, his gates--will not be able to withstand the onslaughts of the church, the attacks of God's people against the Enemy's territory. The gates of hell shall not prevail. The gates of hell will not be able to withstand our attacks.

It's a case of mistaken identity, and some of the misunderstanding has probably come from the misuse of the word "prevail." The Lord didn't misuse it: the original Greek word He used here did not mean to "conquer" or "overcome" as is the accepted meaning of "prevail" in most of today's dictionaries. The word Jesus used meant to "stand strong" or "withstand strongly." What He was saying was that the gates of hell would not be able to stand strong or withstand or be very strong against the attacks of the forces of God.

It could be that our modern usage of the word "prevail" has changed its meaning through the years since the King James translation, when it is possible the word "prevail" did convey the correct meaning of "stand strong against." Otherwise, it was a very poor choice of a word by the translators to define the Greek word, which meant to "stand strong," because our usual present meaning of the word "prevail" in English means to "conquer" or "overcome," just the opposite of what Jesus was talking about. Furthermore, the word "prevail" is only used one time in this sense of "overcoming" or "conquering" in the 67 times it is used in the whole Bible.

The picture is not of the church standing fast behind its closed doors while all hell attacks. The picture Christ painted was of hell trembling behind its closed doors, while the church was in an all-out attack against hell's gates, which were collapsing and crumbling under the weight of the power of God through His church.

Did you get the picture? The Children of God are launching the attack. They are on the offensive. They are invading hell's gates. The Children of God are raiding the Devil's territory, just as you do when you go out witnessing, right on the Devil's ground, right into his strongholds. You're launching the attack, you're picking its time and place. You're taking the initiative, you're overwhelming the Enemy.

This is why the commando raids of World War II were so successful--tiny raids against tremendous strongholds of the enemy on the coasts of Norway and Germany. One tiny little boatload of men and explosives in the fog of dark and night, would cross the North Sea, then suddenly, without warning, sneaking right past the enemy's line of defense, would blow up some of his major installations--power plants, fortifications, bunkers, big guns, even battleships--which they'd sink right in the port's mouth, bottling up his fleet.

All this damage was inflicted by a mere handful of men against almost overwhelming numerical odds of the enemy, in manpower and firepower.--All because they were quick, unexpected, surprising, sudden attacks, taking the initiative and the offensive, choosing the time and the place, and the enemy knew not where or when, so he could never be prepared. And they were extremely successful. It caused him to have to spread out his forces and be prepared to defend himself in so many places at one time that he weakened his whole operation.

The enemy never knows what you're going to do next. He doesn't know what kind of a shenanigan you're going to pull next, and you've put him on the defensive. He rocks and reels from sudden blow after sudden blow, so that he has no time to organize an attack on you; he's too busy defending himself. In this way, tiny guerrilla forces and commando units can keep an entire numerically superior conventional army at bay, and an army continually on the defensive will never get anywhere.

Take Martin Luther, for example. That one man against the world, with God, was more than a match for the Devil and all his forces, because he launched the attack, he took the initiative, he chose the time and place, and he drove home thrust after thrust of the sword of God's Spirit into the wide open chinks in the armor of the Roman Catholic Church, which was set back on its heels and made to defend itself against the attacks of one man and a few others who preceded and followed him.

You can be destroyed by defending instead of attacking. Never let yourself get put on the defensive! Never let them do all the talking, ask all the questions, and give all the answers. Sock it to them with the Word of God! Survey their condition, find the chinks in their armor, the weakness in their defense, then launch the attack with the sword of His Spirit. Don't let them put you on the defensive or you're doomed to defeat.

This is why the tiny handful of Christians of the early church could absolutely upset the whole Roman world. This is why the tiny handful of so-called reformers--really revolutionists--of the Reformation, could all but destroy the exclusive hold the Roman church had on Christian faith and doctrine. This is why the tiny handful of American pioneers could establish such a great and powerful country, now one of the richest and most powerful in the world.

Let's go! Attack! You can't lose. Sure, we'll have casualties. Sure, we'll have losses. Sure we'll have wounds. But we'll win, because we cannot lose. It's impossible, for God is with us. We're on the offensive. We're moving. We're attacking. We're active. We're doing something--getting things done--acting, not just talking--samples, not just sermons--activists, not just theorists--converting, changing, conquering.

Face the enemy! Attack him! "Resist the enemy and he'll flee from you" (James 4:7). Face the fear of man in the power of His Spirit on the promises of His Word, and you cannot fail. Praise God.

A mighty fortress is our God, a bulwark never failing;
Our helper He, amid the flood of mortal ills prevailing:
For still our ancient foe doth seek to work us woe;
His craft and power are great, and, armed with cruel hate,
On earth is not his equal.
Did we in our own strength confide, our striving would be losing;
Were not the right Man on our side, the Man of God's own choosing:
Dost ask who that may be? Christ Jesus, it is He;
Lord Sabaoth, His name, from age to age the same,
And He must win the battle.
And tho' this world, with devils filled, should threaten to undo us,
We will not fear, for God hath willed His truth to triumph through us.
The Prince of Darkness grim--we tremble not for him;
His rage we can endure, for lo, his doom is sure,
One little word shall fell him.
That word above all earthly powers, no thanks to them, abideth;
The Spirit and the gifts are ours, through Him who with us sideth.
Let goods and kindred go, this mortal life also;
The body they may kill: God's truth abideth still,
And we will win the battle.

We used to sing a little song:

He gives me joy in place of sorrow
He gives me love that casts out fears
He gives me sunshine for my shadow
And beauty for ashes dear.[1]
In order to bring forth the sweetness, there has to be some suffering. To bring about the beauty of the flame, there must be ashes. Something must go to ashes!

Blessings come from suffering--beauty for ashes--as is borne out so well in Hebrews 12. Verse 11 says, "Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous: nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby."

Praise is the voice of faith.

Like a giant hand taking the honeycomb and squeezing it, and out comes the honey. Like Moses smiting the rock--it hurt the rock, but out came the water. Like a beautiful flower pressed and crushed, but out comes the perfume. Like the beautiful music that comes from the throat of the bird--almost as though in pain, yet it comes forth with song. The whole Creation groaneth, waiting to be delivered (Romans 8:22). Even though the bird's song is sad, it's so sweet. The groans are not murmurs, but songs of praise and thanksgiving to God--a sad, sweet song. As Shelley wrote, "Our sweetest songs are those that tell of saddest thoughts."[2] The heart of stone had to be broken before the water could flow out to refresh the people. (See Exodus 17:6.)

Lord, help us not to fight Thy crushing, Thy bruising, Thy smiting, which causes the water to gush forth. Help us not to quench that beautiful song, even if it's sad--to thank Thee in spite of the sorrow. Help us to be willing to be smitten and crushed, to be squeezed and to be bruised, to be in agony, that we may give forth Thy sweetness, Thy fragrance, Thy beauty, Thy song, Thy refreshing waters. Out of what seems like defeat come some of Thy greatest victories.

You could never appreciate the light unless you've been in darkness. You can't appreciate health unless you've been sick. You'll never appreciate joy until you've known sorrow. You can't appreciate God's mercy until you've known the Devil's justice.

"Who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God" (2 Corinthians 1:4).

It may surprise you to know that God likes you, His children, to make your own choices within His will. I know you delight yourself in the Lord most of all and want to do His will. But when we do, it is His delight to also give us the desires of our hearts, because He's the one who puts them there when we're pleasing Him (Psalm 37:4). If we love the Lord with all our hearts, these personal desires are usually the right ones, because we only want to please Him. So your personal desire in the matter has a great deal to do with God's will. He gives us what we want and have faith for.

But as my mother used to say, "When in doubt, don't!" For as His Word says, "Whatsoever is not of faith is sin" (Romans 14:23). However, if you're truly convinced in your own heart that a thing is God's will, you should do it, no matter what anybody says. But if you're convinced in your own heart that it is not God's will, you should not do it, no matter what anybody says. But if you're not sure and do not know for sure, and have not yet made certain that a thing is God's will, then the best thing to do, of course, in the case of uncertainty, is to wait on the Lord until He reveals it to you one way or the other.

In the meantime, don't let anybody else tell you that it is of the Lord and okay to go ahead, or that it is His will that you do so, if He has not said so. Just say you're waiting on the Lord to know His will. Anything is possible, for with God nothing is impossible, for all things are possible to him that believeth (Luke 1:37, Mark 9:23). However you must be personally sure and not merely be swayed by others. It must be your own personal desire from the Lord, in which case it would be of God. However, even if such should be the case, there could still be many obstacles yet to hurdle, as you well know.

Time is the great tester, so I'd certainly advise you to wait until you're sure of your own mind and heart and God's will. As Paul says in that same 14th chapter of Romans, "Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind" (Romans 14:5). You personally must make the choice, and the decision is up to you and you alone. No one else can make it for you, not even God.

This is one of the mysteries of God's will and His plan: That He hath bestowed upon each of us the immortal majesty of personal choice to do either good or evil. And strange as it may seem to some, it even pleases the Lord to give us our personal choice between several alternative goods, all within His will, if it is our personal desire, even as we would our own children in letting them pick out their own personal choice of a toy, or an outing, or a pleasure, as long as it is safe and good for them. This is one thing people don't seem to understand about God: He really likes to give us our choice, even as we do our own children, as long as it is not something bad for us, or bad for others.

If your choice has not seemed to work out well, it could be that you made a mistake at that time and let others choose for you. Don't let that happen again. This time, make your own choice. God will give you whatever you want that's good for you, because He loves you, and "No good thing will He withhold from them that walk uprightly" (Psalm 84:11). If it is good for you and those involved, He will be more than glad to give it to you.--Although sometimes He gives us the desires of our heart but sends leanness to our souls just to teach us a lesson and to show us that we made a foolish choice (Psalm 106:15).

So, contrary to popular opinion, God does not usually choose for us. We have to choose for ourselves, find His will for ourselves, seek Him diligently to know His will, and to know what is best for us and others through our knowledge of His Word and personal experience. This is why He put us here, this is what we're here to learn, and the major part of our training: how to make the right decisions through our personal contact with Him, our knowledge of His Word and His will, and our love for Him and others. We must do what we know is right, and be willing to live and to die for what we know is the truth.

But as He says, "Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind." Be sure you're right, and you know you're right. Then go ahead and do what you know is right, no matter what anybody says, and not because anyone has said it, but because you yourself are personally convinced it's God's will, have established it in the mouth of many witnesses, and confirmed it through many leadings, signs, and other fruits and evidences. Follow His guiding Word to you to help you know what's best. He likes you to seek it out and find it, so you yourself will know it's right when you do it without a doubt.

Think of your own children or family. Think how you love them, and how you like to make them happy, as well as keep them safe and healthy, as long as they love you and delight themselves in obedience to your word, even giving them the choice of many things that are good for them. And remember that God is like that with you. That's what He wants you to do and to have, to give you the desires of your heart, as long as you delight yourself in Him. But they must be the desires of your heart and not merely someone else's--your choice and not only another's.

May God bless and keep you and continue to make you a great blessing and give you every desire of your heart as you delight yourself in Him and His love.

The door is now open. Walk in where you will, by your own free and loving choice. It is His delight to give it to you. Fear not, little one, it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom (Luke 12:32). God bless you!

Did God make a mistake by putting Adam and Eve in the Garden and they wound up making their own choice, the wrong one (Genesis 3)? Did God have to confess failure by the Flood, in that He had to wipe out mankind for its wickedness (Genesis 6:1-7)? Was the Tower of Babel a total disaster, and was the confusion of tongues a catastrophe (Genesis 11:1-9)? Or was it necessary to accomplish God's purpose to humble and scatter man over the face of the earth?

Was it a mistake when Moses killed the Egyptian and had to flee for his life, and lived 40 years in the wilderness with the sheep and his father-in-law? Wasn't that a terrible setback to the cause and the deliverance of his people? Or was it necessary that Moses go into exile to learn the lessons that God had to teach him, to make him the man he needed to be to deliver his people?--Totally dependent on God, not himself (Exodus 2:11-15).

And wasn't that a terrible defeat for the Lord's cause when the children of Israel turned back at Kadeshbarnea and wandered around another forty years until the whole older generation had died in the wilderness (Joshua 5:6)? Wasn't that a real setback? Or was it? What if they had tried to invade Israel with all those unbelievers, or if they had tried to conquer the Promised Land with all those Doubting Thomases? What kind of a disaster would that have been? They might have all gotten wiped out!

Did God make a mistake when He chose Saul to be king, considering the way Saul turned out? Was Saul a failure? Or did he accomplish God's purpose in training the king God was really after: David? God gets His greatest victories out of seeming defeats, and He causeth the wrath of man to praise Him (Psalm 76:10).

Did God make a mistake when He let David fall for Bathsheba and fall from grace in the eyes of the kingdom, fall from the throne at the hand of his own son, and depart in disgrace and scandal to another country with only a handful of friends (2 Samuel 11, 15)? Did David really fall downward, or was this a fall upward?

Sometimes God's way up is down. Usually, in fact! Just the opposite of what we think. God loves to do things contrary to natural expectation, because that takes a miracle and that shows it's God, and not man. David was humbled and the whole kingdom was humbled, and they were reminded that it was only the Lord that made them what they were. From that squeezing and twisting of David's life came forth the sweet honey of the Psalms and the fragrance of his praises to the Lord for His mercy. It was all God and all grace and none of himself or his own righteousness, a lesson that's been an encouragement to others ever since.

Was Elijah's ministry defeated when he ran from Jezebel after his great victory on Mt. Carmel? Was his great bravery there scuttled by his cowardice in the wilderness? After slaying the hundreds of false prophets, here he was running from a mere woman (1 Kings 19:1-4). What a picture! The great, brave, statuesque prophet, towering above all the people in the might and power of God on top of Mt. Carmel, calling down fire from heaven, then afterwards running from Queen Jezebel. Here was the prophet of God afraid of a woman! Didn't this defeat his whole ministry? Didn't this undermine his entire witness? Didn't this prove he wasn't such a great prophet after all? Didn't this cause him to lose his following? Or was God trying to show him something that was going to make him a better prophet, a humbler prophet, who would come back unafraid even of the king, much less the queen?

After Elijah found out that God was not just in the fire, the thunder and the earthquake, this man of fire and thunder became a meek little man of the still small voice of God (1 Kings 19:11-13). He'd been great on doom and destruction and judgment, now he was learning the slow, patient process of feeding and leading the sheep.

It's so much easier, so much more dramatic to be a prophet of doom than a healer of wounds and a feeder of sheep, a grower of lambs and a teacher of babes. There's so much more glory in calling down the fire of God from heaven and slaying false prophets. It's so much more dramatic, more cataclysmic, more spectacular! And you like to see yourself in the paper.

But where's the big news of the teacher who trudges along day after day, feeding the sheep as they gradually grow to be productive and fruitful in lasting, permanent fruit that remains for the everlasting kingdom of God? And what farmer makes news trudging along through the furrows, laboring with his hands--patiently, tenderly, diligently nurturing little blades of grain that they may grow up, even in a day that he may never see, and bear much fruit.

This is another whole subject in itself--the little people, the nobodies, those behind the scenes who make it all possible, the ones who stay behind and keep the home fires burning, care for the babes, feed the children, wash the dishes, cook the food, sweep the floor, and clean the toilets. It takes the little people to make the others great, and you have to be "little people" first before you can become great.--Because God only makes great people out of little people to show His greatness.

"God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty; and base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to nought things that are, that no flesh should glory in His presence."--That He might get all the glory, because then you know it wasn't man (1 Corinthians 1:27-29).

Abraham had to learn it wasn't Abraham: It was only God. Moses had to learn it couldn't be Moses. David had to learn by looking at Saul, and becoming a disgrace himself, that he couldn't make it on his own. Elijah had to learn it wasn't Elijah, but God.

The list is almost endless of all the people God had to humble before He could use them, of all the leaders God had to bring down to the depths before they could stand to be exalted, lest they would have taken credit to themselves and not given God the glory. Because, by the time God's ready to make you great, He makes absolutely nothing out of you, so there's nothing left of you at all, and it's only Jesus. When He can get you out of the way, then He has a chance.

When you become nothing but a tool and a channel, nothing but a little diamond of dust, then God can really use you. He has to break you and humble you and melt you in the fire, purge you, purify you, sift you, beat out the chaff. He has to beat the hell out of you, till there's none of it left, crucify the flesh till it's dead as a doornail, mortify the mind till it's almost gone, so that Jesus can live and think and move in you. Did God make a mistake? Or is all this necessary to make us what we ought to be?

Wasn't it a disgrace and a terrible blow to His cause for the great leader of the prophets of doom, Jeremiah, to be hung in stocks before the temple door, so his brethren could spit in his face--or be dropped in the mud to his armpits by his enemies, so that his dear friend, Ebedmelech, had to come secretly and pull him out? And wasn't that finally the most scandalous of all, that he should land in jail branded a traitor and a criminal, disloyal to his nation and his own people (Jeremiah 20:2, 38:6-13, 37:11-15)?

Yes, but not to God! It was all a part of God's plan to keep Jeremiah humble and close to the Lord, utterly dependent on God, and not on his family, his friends, his brethren, or the king--so God could put him in the safety of the cold storage of prison until he could be delivered by his enemies, and be blessed and protected, and provided for and encouraged, by the ones you would have least expected it from--the cruel, heathen enemies of his people. Was it a mistake? Couldn't there have been a better, more proper way of doing it?

Whoever heard of winning a battle by digging ditches, getting down in the mud and the mire and making holes in the ground? But that's what God's prophet told Jehoshaphat and his army to do--and God used it in a very strange way to scare the daylights out of their enemies and help him win the battle, almost without firing a shot. (See 2 Kings 3.)

God loves to do things contrary to the way we think He ought to do them! Is this a mistake? Is God wrong? Did God fail? Why didn't God take Gideon's 32,000 and let them destroy the army of Midian so they could pat themselves on the back and show what a great people they were, instead of having a ridiculous little band of 300 break up the dishes in the middle of the night and brandish the fireworks and toot and yell their heads off, scaring the enemy so silly, they slew themselves. (See Judges 7.)

What an ignominious way to win a battle. What an inglorious way to conquer the enemy. It was ridiculous--but God did it! You could only thank God for the victory, because all you did was break dishes, wave torches, and yell your fool head off, while God did the real work. Who could possibly get the credit for that kind of a battle but the Lord? Certainly not Gideon, who was crazy enough to believe God and do it!

"And what shall I say more? For the time would fail me to tell of Barak, and of Samson" (Hebrews 11:32). What a dandy bad example he was--a longhair, always running after the women, getting in fights and drinking it up with the boys! What an unconventional, crazy way for God to save His people, by using a rebel like Samson. Did God make a mistake? Or was He trying to show that He can use anything--even you--by giving us such encouraging examples of His successful failures, His fabulous flops, His daring dropouts who dared to trust Him in spite of themselves and give Him all the glory because they knew it had to be God!

Wouldn't it have been much more respectable and acceptable for the King of kings, Jesus, to have been born in a palace, with illustrious members of the court in attendance, and with all the honor and praise of the system.--Instead of on the dirty floor of a barn surrounded by cows and asses, wrapped in rags and lying in a feed trough, with a motley crew of poor little shepherd boys kneeling on the floor beside Him?

The manger has been so glorified by man since then, that they've forgotten what it was used for.--Nothing but a rough bin for the livestock to eat out of.

Wouldn't it have been better for His father to have been a prominent potentate instead of a humble hewer of wood? Wouldn't that have made it easier on Him and His followers, and advanced His work a little more rapidly, to have the approval of the established order? And wasn't that rather humiliating for His humble parents to become fugitives from injustice and flee the country like common criminals for having given birth to the leader of a rival revolutionary religion?

And wouldn't it have been better for Him to have lived a little more decently and acceptably, instead of being born in another man's stable, scrounging His food in other men's fields, and sleeping in other people's houses, and being buried in another man's grave? Did He have to always be challenging the churches, defying convention, destroying traditions, and threatening the religious system?--So that He had to be executed with common criminals, and leave behind the evil reputation of having been a companion of publicans and sinners, a glutton and a winebibber, found too often in the company of drunks and harlots, a lawbreaker, rabble-rouser, disturber of the peace, and false prophet of the wrong way. That's what they called Him! Couldn't God have used less controversial tactics than that and done it more peaceably and respectably and acceptably? Didn't God make a mistake?

To hell with the proper way! The unexpected and the improper, the unconventional and the untraditional, the unorthodox and unceremonious, contrary to man's natural expectation--this is the way God often works! "For My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways My ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are My ways higher than your ways and My thoughts than your thoughts" (Isaiah 55:8-9). Who can know the mind of the Lord and who can show Him anything (1 Corinthians 2:16)?

So quit trying to tell Him how He ought to do it! "Now, Lord, You must do it this way or that way, so we'll be accepted and people will understand." "Trust in the Lord with all thine heart: and lean not unto thy own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him and He shall direct thy paths" (Proverbs 3:5-6).

The minute you try to figure it out in the flesh, you might as well quit, because it will probably never work out that way anyhow. "Lest Israel say, 'Mine own arm hath saved me'" (Judges 7:2). God loves to do things contrary to the way we think He ought to do them. Is this a mistake? Is God wrong?

"I am the way, the truth and the life; and no man cometh unto the Father, but by Me. Strait is the gate and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. Many are called, but few are chosen. Not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called: But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and the weak things to confound the things which are mighty. And many of His disciples, when they had heard this, said, 'This is an hard saying: who can bear it?' And the disciples forsook Him and fled. Let us go forth unto Him without the camp, bearing His reproach. For He made Himself of no reputation and took upon Him the form of a servant. ... He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. He was taken from prison and from judgment ... and He made His grave with the wicked and with the rich in His death. ... And ye shall be hated of all nations for My name's sake ... and then shall the end come. Because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. If they have persecuted Me, they will also persecute you. He that receiveth you, receiveth Me and he that receiveth Me receiveth Him that sent Me. The disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his lord." (John 14:6; Matthew 7:14; 20:16; 1 Corinthians 1:26-27; John 6:60, 66-67; Matthew 26:56; Hebrews 13:13; Philippians 2:7; Isaiah 53; Matthew 24:9, 14; John 15:19-20; Matthew 10:40, 24.)

God doesn't make mistakes, and even the "foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men." There is no better way than God's way. Hear ye Him! "And He saith unto them, Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men. And they immediately left all and followed Him ... even unto the death of the cross." "Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of Me and My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when He cometh in the glory of His Father with the holy angels." "Beware when all men speak well of you!" (1 Corinthians 1:25; Matthew 4:19-20; Philippians 2:8; Mark 8:38; Luke 6:26.)

What do you have a vision for? What do you have faith for? What do you yourself expect God to do this year, not next year? What can you see happening right now and from now on? What do you personally plan to do about it? What do you personally hope to do about it and want to do about it?

The most uncomfortable place for a Christian is a comfortable place. One of the greatest dangers is the feeling that you've really accomplished something; so much so, that you no longer have that driving motivation which makes you feel like you cannot stop, that you've got to keep going even if it kills you!

We cannot go on "business as usual"! If we don't obey God, this could happen to us, the feeling that we have arrived--that we've made it and we're satisfied with what we've accomplished. The minute you get that feeling, that's as far as you get.

How like death moving is! It's the ending of one life and the beginning of another. Moving is hard to do. I'm having a real battle moving on to the next place. If I have to keep moving, I have to keep dying. You can understand why Paul said, "I die daily" (1 Corinthians 15:31).

It's not a matter of looking off in the future. If you're not willing to die daily right now in order to get the job done, you'll never be able to die someday as a martyr. And if you're not willing to deny yourself in all the little ways every day to reach the lost, you'll never be able to deny yourself in the end by a martyr's death.

If you're not willing to go and choose to die daily for Jesus right now, you may never be! And that begins on your block, getting out in your neighborhood, in your part of the world. As the lady said when she had to go out witnessing, "Oh, this just kills me!"

Well, that's exactly what it should do: It should kill your pride, your selfishness, your egotism, and may even cause some considerable physical sacrifice and strain. If you have lost that compulsion--that feeling like you just have to get out and make progress and keep moving or you'll die, and if you don't have that feeling anymore that you'd rather get out there and die for something rather than live for nothing--then you've lost the martyr spirit. That's the real martyr spirit!

This daily dying is the hardest kind, because you do it a thousand times, whereas at the end of your life the final death is nothing by comparison. Your final death is your graduation! This slow death of dying a little each day--that's what takes a lot of guts.

A young reporter once asked the leader of a well-known Eastern religion about his young followers and if he thought they were old enough to understand what it was all about. He wisely answered, "We're all old. You're old. You may die tomorrow. They're old because their lives may be over tomorrow. So today we're all old." In other words, they've got to be old enough. Their lives may be over tomorrow.

"Boast not thyself of tomorrow" (Proverbs 27:1). It may not only be later than you think, but you may be older than you think. You're counting on doing the job someday soon, but we'd better do it now!--Or we may never get it done.

The shocking question I want to ask you is: Are we getting in a rut? Are we turning sour, losing our fire, our convictions, our vision, our faith, our courage? And where is our initiative?

There's nothing that succeeds like success. But at the same time, there's nothing that fails faster than failure! You're never so near the abyss, the deep, bottomless pit, as you are when you're standing on the brink--on the mountaintop. When you're on the top, it's not only the most victorious place to be, but it's the most dangerous. When you're on the bottom, you have nothing to lose. There's no way out but up, and the bottom is the safest place in the world. You're nobody and nobody cares what you do.

Egypt never worried about the Jews until they began to be numerous and powerful. The Egyptians did not really become their enemies in earnest until they had gotten to be about three to six million and spread out all over the land of Goshen. But when they began to really threaten the status quo, and began to appear to be a genuine threat to the system of the day, Pharaoh and his army got busy to try to put a stop to them!

There's also such a thing as trying to go too fast. You get out of touch with the Lord. Some of you nearly work yourselves to death--you're really killing yourselves! You have to take a vacation. God's Word even tells us to. God couldn't even trust them to stop their work one day a week and take the rest they needed. He had to make it a commandment (Exodus 20:8Ã¢â‚¬â€œ11), and say, Just take it off because I said so! You're going to burn out if you don't.

You want to die daily, but you don't want to die completely right now! It's your business for God's sake to stay alive so you can carry on, and this attitude of trying to kill yourself off quickly through your service to Him instead of trying to live as long as possible is not what God wants. You're going to have to try to live a little longer to carry out what God wants.

The gruff, blustery, colorful, dramatic, outspoken, but highly successful General Patton is credited to have once said, contrary to popular opinion, that "It is not the duty of every good soldier to die for his country, but to see to it that the other dumb bastard dies for his country!" In other words, although a good soldier must be willing to die for his cause, if necessary, it's far better for him to learn how to live for it, how to stay alive and keep fighting, as you won't be much good to anyone dead.

You have so much to do and so little time to do it in--so many things to take care of, so many people to take care of--that you work yourself to a frazzle and a frenzy trying to get everything done and take care of everything and everybody, that you're going to find that you may very well be neglecting both God and God's will.

If we've gotten the idea that our main job is to keep disciples and grow in numbers, we have lost our whole goal. If you think that is our main objective, you have forgotten what it's all about! Our job is to reach the ends of the earth with the Gospel--to get the message across. That's our job.

God's Word tells us, "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof" (Psalm 46:1-3).

That's His promise, amen? He is our refuge and strength, and through the trying days that now are and shall yet come, He is "a very present help in trouble." If we love Him and if we're obeying Him and keeping His commandments, the Lord is very concerned about helping and preserving and protecting us.

Just read the Bible and you'll see story after story of how marvelously the Lord protects and keeps His children. Once in a while they got in trouble and they suffered some, but He always delivered them! He doesn't say that you're never going to have any trials or afflictions, but He promises He'll deliver you out of them all (Psalm 34:19).

God may allow a test now and then just to see how much faith we've got, how determined we are, how much patience we have. He sometimes allows troubles as a testing and trial to see how much knowledge of the Word we have, and how much we'll stand on the Word.

Once, when I was concerned and worrying about the future, He answered me with a question: "Will I not care for My own?" What an encouragement from the Lord! "Will I not care for My own?" The Lord is able to keep us through anything and everything. He will care for us. In fact, He won't let a hair of your head be touched without His permission. "He that toucheth you toucheth the apple of Mine eye" (Matthew 10:30; Zechariah 2:8).

Lord, You are our deliverer, our strong fortress in whom we hide, our strong tower in which the righteous hide. You are our strength. You promised, "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty" (Psalm 91:1), and we know that's the best protection there could possibly be. So we put our faith and trust in You, in Jesus' name, amen.

"Hedged about"

Don't ever forget, we are surrounded by the angels of God. We are hedged in, as the Devil himself said about Job. The Devil complained to God about Job, "How can I touch him? You've got him fenced in! You've got him so hedged in, I can't even reach him, I can't even touch him" (Job 1:10). God has placed a hedge of angels around us too.

"The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear Him, and delivereth them" (Psalm 34:7). So thank God for the great company of angels!

When it looked like the prophet Elisha was cornered and surrounded by an entire army of his enemies, his servant became very worried and upset, as it looked like a truly impossible situation. "And when the servant of the man of God was risen early, and gone forth, behold, an host compassed the city both with horses and chariots. And his servant said unto him, 'Alas, my master! How shall we do?'" (2 Kings 6:15).

But the prophet answered, "Fear not: for they that be with us are more than they that be with them! And Elisha prayed, and said, 'Lord, I pray Thee, open his eyes, that he may see.' And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man; and he saw: and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha" (2 Kings 6:16-17).

So that's something that we need to remember and constantly thank the Lord for--His marvelous, miraculous, supernatural protection! Thank God for His angels that encamp round about us.

Precious hiding place,
Blessed hiding place,
In the shelter of His love.
Not a doubt nor fear,
When my Lord is near,
For I'm sheltered in His love.--Avis M. Christiansen, 1918
Pray without ceasing

Keep close to the Lord and constantly claim His protection, always asking the Lord to keep you, and bless and protect you, because lots of things can happen that are totally beyond your control, but not the Lord's!

"Men ought always to pray and not to faint" (Luke 18:1), God's Word says. And He says, "Pray without ceasing" (1 Thessalonians 5:17). Jesus said, "Watch and pray" (Matthew 26:41). He didn't say that for no reason. He not only knew you would need it, but it's one way the Lord has of trying to keep you close to Him, in His presence continually, and constantly dependent upon Him and His protection and provision.

Your best protection is to stay strong in the Lord and the Word and in prayer and the Spirit. Jesus Himself said, "A strong man armed keepeth his goods in peace" (Luke 11:21). What did Jesus mean by that? To be strong is to be watchful and to be wise. Not just physically, but to be strong in spirit, strong in prayer.

"Fear not"

When people get upset and worried about things, we often say, "Don't worry about it!" If anybody could say that to us, it's the Lord. "Don't worry about it! You're My child, and I'm going to take care of you no matter what happens."

Just trust the Lord, and He'll take care of you. He never fails, no matter what the conditions. He says, "Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust" (Psalm 40:4).

Once, when I was very burdened about something I cried out, "Lord, what should we do?" Instead of telling me what to do, He told me what not to do. I wasn't asking the Lord for a scripture; I wanted to know what to do. But He simply told me, "Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of My righteousness" (Isaiah 41:10).

That's a verse I've gotten before, but it was certainly an encouragement from the Lord at that time. So whatever you do, don't be afraid. Be like King David, who exclaimed, "In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid" (Psalm 56:11). Keep your faith in the Lord and trust the Lord and know that the Lord is in control, and nothing's going to happen but what the Lord allows.

The Lord's going to take care of us, whatever happens, and He's going to do what He wants to do. God is in control, and nothing happens to His children without His permission, and all things that He allows will eventually work together for our good. Praise the Lord!

Lord, help us not to worry or fear, but only to fear You and love You and follow and obey You. You said, "In the fear of the Lord is strong confidence: and His children shall have a place of refuge" (Proverbs 14:26). Help us to remain at peace in You, Lord. "Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on Thee, because he trusteth in Thee" (Isaiah 26:3). Help us not to worry about any of the waves and winds and billows that we face. Help us just to look to You, and keep our eyes on You and trust You. We know You work everything out for the best somehow. All things, Lord, shall work together for good to us who love You. In some way it's all going to work together for our good, in Jesus' name. Amen.

The Lord is our refuge!
Safe in the arms of Jesus,
Safe on His gentle breast,
There by His Love o'er shaded,
Sweetly my soul shall rest.
Safe in the arms of Jesus,
Safe from all worry and care,
Safe from the world's tribulations,
Nothing can harm me there.
Jesus, my heart's dear Refuge,
Jesus has died for me;
Firm on the Rock of Ages,
Ever my trust shall be!
The Bible and the words of God's prophets are actually the only real newspapers or news books. Newspapers tell you what happened yesterday, so they're not really newspapers; they're history papers! But the Bible tells us what is going to happen tomorrow. It is full of detailed prophecies describing specific people, places, times, situations, and events thousands of years before they came into being (Isaiah 34:16, 42:9; 2 Peter 1:19-21).

Many of these prophecies are about the final period of world history, just before Jesus returns to set up His kingdom of love and peace on earth. These latter days of man's kingdoms on earth are known in the Bible as the "time of the end," the "latter days," the "last days"--the time in which you and I are now living (Daniel 2:28, 8:23, 12:4).

When Jesus' disciples wanted to know the future and asked Him, "What shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world?" He didn't reply with only one sign, but with dozens. In fact, the Bible gives hundreds of "signs of the times," signs and signals that we are to look out for so that we can know how close to the very end we are (Matthew 24).

These signs include "famines, pestilences, and earthquakes in diverse places" (Matthew 24:7), "the gospel being preached in all the world for a witness to all nations" (Matthew 24:14), a drastic increase in international travel, with "many running to and fro, wandering from sea to sea, as knowledge is increased" (Daniel 12:4; Amos 8:11-12). A great "falling away" (2 Thessalonians 2:3) from the faith as "evil men and seducers grow worse and worse, deceiving many" (2 Timothy 3:13); "the love of many growing cold" (Matthew 24:12), resulting in "distress of nations upon the earth and men's hearts failing them for fear" (Luke 21:25-26). We are seeing the fulfillment of many of these signs today more than ever before.

One of the most important and final signs of the very end that the prophets predicted is the rise of a totally godless anti-Christ world government led by a dictator who will be possessed by Satan himself. He will come on the scene with a seven-year agreement or covenant in which he will promise the world peace and religious freedom, and he will somehow settle the current crisis in the Middle East by working out a compromise between the Arabs and the Jews, enabling the Jews to rebuild their temple on Mount Moriah, Jerusalem, where their ancient temple once stood and where the Muslim Dome of the Rock mosque stands today (Daniel 8:23-25; 2 Thessalonians 2:1-4; Daniel 9:27).

During the first half of the Antichrist's seven-year covenant, people are going to think that he is wonderful, as he will have brought peace, restored the world's economy, solved the Middle East crisis, etc. But suddenly, halfway through his seven-year reign, he will break the covenant, invade Israel from the north, and will forbid and abolish all traditional religious worship, declaring that he is God and demanding that all the world worship him (Daniel 9:27, 8:9-12, 11:21-24, 28-31, 36; 2 Thessalonians 2:3-4, 8-9).

At this time he will place an idol, an image of himself, in the temple area in Jerusalem, an "abomination of desolation," which will probably be some kind of a computerized robot, as it will speak and somehow even cause those who refuse to worship it to be killed. Jesus Himself said that when you see this idol, this abomination of desolation, standing there, then would begin the last 3½ years of man's rule on earth, a time of "Great Tribulation" (Daniel 11:31, 12:11; Matthew 24:15-21; Revelation 13:14-15).

During this 3½-year period, people won't use paper money anymore, because the Antichrist government is going to set up a one-world credit system, and all those who worship this Antichrist will be permanently branded with a credit number in their hands or foreheads. The Antichrist government will use this new credit system to try to force everybody to either worship the Antichrist or starve, because no one will be able to buy or sell without this number or "Mark of the Beast." But God's children will refuse to worship him or receive his mark, and the Lord will take care of us, even if He has to drop manna from heaven to feed us (Revelation 13:16-18; 12:6,14).

While the Antichrist and his followers are persecuting and trying to get God's children, God is going to let loose pestilences and plagues and even strange monsters that will attack these followers of the Antichrist. These days of the Tribulation will be like the last days of the children of Israel in Egypt. God's prophets will be doing great and mighty signs, wonders and miracles to defend the gospel and God's children (Revelation 7:3, 9:1-11, 11:3-6)!

During this tribulation period, ten "kings" will join the Antichrist and together they will destroy and "devour with fire Babylon, the great whore."--A final judgment which, according to many scriptures, sounds like it is meted out by the ten leading nations of Europe, and a nuclear first strike that will destroy this modern Babylon in one hour (Revelation 17:12,16-17; 18:1-10, 17-19).

This great atomic war, along with the Antichrist's worldwide suppression and persecution of all who refuse to worship him, will make this Great Tribulation period a time of trouble such as the world has never known! That's why God, in His Word, repeatedly tells us how long this period of Great Tribulation will last--exactly 3½ years, or 42 months, or 1260 days from the time that the Antichrist sets up his image in the temple--to encourage His followers to hang on and keep going for Him (Matthew 24:21-22; Daniel 7:25; 9:27; 12:7; Revelation 11:2-3; 12:6,14; 13:5).

Because at the end of that last 3½ years, just when the fiendish Antichrist thinks he has the world in his grasp, suddenly like a bolt from the blue, Jesus will return and snatch all of His children out of this world! Just after that darkest night in world history, we are going to have the brightest dawn. Jesus is going to come back and rescue His own, His church, His people, everyone who loves Him and knows Him and has Him in their hearts (Matthew 24:29-31).

All of the Christians who have already died and gone on to be with Jesus will come back with Him to pick up their new resurrection bodies. And "the earth shall cast out her dead" (Isaiah 26:19). Then those who are alive and remain, having miraculously survived and kept witnessing for Jesus throughout the Antichrist's reign of terror, will instantly be changed, transformed, and receive new, miraculous, supernatural resurrection bodies--just like Jesus' body after He was resurrected! And up we'll sail toward the sky, "to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord" (1 Thessalonians 4:14-17; 1 Corinthians 15:51-57; Philippians 3:21).

All of the Antichrist's people will be shocked as they see the Lord coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory, lighting up the whole sky like permanent lightning! The powers of the heavens are shaken as the Lord descends with a great shout. A terrific blast sounds on the trumpet of God, and the graves of the saints burst open as the dead are raised! All of God's children who are still alive will be transformed before their eyes, flying upward to meet Jesus. "Every eye shall see Him, and all the kindreds of the earth shall wail because of Him" (Matthew 24:27-31; Revelation 1:7).

Jesus will come back to catch His bride, His church, out of the evil clutches of the enemy and then whisk them away to the grandest, most glorious and thrilling wedding party that's ever been held, the Marriage Supper of the Lamb in heaven. Then, right after the Lord rescues and raptures His bride to be with Him, the seven vials of the wrath of God are going to be poured out upon the Antichrist and his people in terrible plagues such as the world has never known (Revelation 19:6-9; 14:14-20; 16:11-21).

God will pour out His judgments and wrath upon the Antichrist and his forces until the final wrath of all, when the wicked gather at Armageddon in Israel to try to fight the very forces of God. Then Jesus Himself, along with His resurrected, glorified, heavenly forces, will return to earth on majestic white chargers out of heaven to utterly defeat and destroy the Antichrist and his forces in the supernatural, catastrophic Battle of Armageddon (Revelation 19:11-21; 17:14; 16:12-21).

Then the saints of God, along with our king Jesus Christ, will take over the world and organize it and rule it and run it the way it should have been run if man had yielded to God. We're going to set up the kingdom of God on earth and restore the earth to the beauty of the Garden of Eden again. This amazing period will last for one thousand years, and therefore it is known as the Millennium (Daniel 2:44; 7:18, 26-27; Revelation 20:4).

The Bible says, "Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection (the Rapture): on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with Him a thousand years" (Revelation 20:6). Jesus also promised to His faithful ones, "He that overcometh, and keepeth My works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations: And he shall rule them with a rod of iron" (Revelation 2:26-27).

The Devil will be bound and cast as a prisoner into the bottomless pit for this thousand-year period, and God is going to be supreme and Jesus will reign from shore to shore, and His saints will rule and reign with Him. Then and only then, under the supreme and powerful rule and reign of Christ and God's children, will all wars finally cease and the world will at last be governed fairly and well with true justice, liberty, peace, plenty, and happiness for all (Revelation 20:1-3; Isaiah 2:2-4; Psalm 22:27-28).

The curse will be partially lifted, which will mean a lot of different and better conditions. The earth will be like it was during the days of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. "And nothing shall hurt nor destroy in all His holy kingdom." No more automobiles belching fumes, nor smoke-belching factories. The world will go back to animal transportation and carriages and wagons and beautiful, majestic, wind-powered sailing vessels (Isaiah 11:6-9; 65:20-25).

During the Millennium, all the born-again, saved, resurrected saints will be in new supernatural bodies, with miraculous powers such as indestructibility, no pain, sickness, or death. The rest of the people, those who have been spared and blessed enough to survive into the Millennium, are going to still be in their old natural bodies. Everyone on earth will see God's glorious power and kingdom and everybody will believe then. So there won't be any unbelievers, but I'm afraid there will still be some unreceivers who won't yield and won't obey and will still be stubborn, rebellious, and defiant (Habakkuk 2:14; Isaiah 25:7; 29:18-19; 32:1; 40:5).

Therefore, as a final test and a final sifting, at the end of the Millennium Satan is going to be released from his prison in the heart of the earth for a "little season," just long enough to deceive the unconverted wicked. These rebels will again follow him to the full, in open rebellion against the Lord and His government, resulting in the catastrophic Battle of Gog and Magog in which God sends down fire out of heaven to devour them completely (Isaiah 26:9-11; Revelation 20:7-10).

In fact, God will cause such a fire to come down that it will completely wipe out the entire surface of the earth, and the heavens shall be rolled back like a scroll and depart with a great noise! It's all going to explode and be burned up, and the surface of the ball is going to be completely purged, cleansed, burned up and re-created into a beautiful new earth (2 Peter 3:10-13).

After this climactic Battle of Gog and Magog, the unsaved of all ages will be resurrected for the final Great White Throne Judgment. They will stand before God Himself in the final judgment in which "the books are opened," and they will all be given their final sentences according to their works and will be assigned to their final places in the hereafter (Revelation 20:11-15).

God's great heavenly city will then descend from above to the beautiful, re-created, garden-of-Eden-like new earth. And God Himself will dwell with us right here on earth. It will be like God taking over the world by invading it from outer space, bringing down His heavenly city and restoring Himself as the King of kings forever! This great space city is 1,500 miles long, 1,500 miles wide, and 1,500 miles high, the greatest space vehicle ever created, the most wonderful spaceship ever conceived (Revelation 21).

The entire "city is pure gold, like unto clear glass" (Revelation 21:18). So you'll be able to see out of the city through those transparent walls, out onto a beautiful, fully restored and re-created new earth that will be populated by new nations and kings and peoples who shall truly have learned the righteousness, goodness, and love of God, even though they are outside the golden city and its jeweled walls (Revelation 21:1, 24-26).

It will be a better world then with better people, who will have learned their lessons of the law of the love of God and will be happier than ever before, because at last they will be purged and purified of their sins of rebellion against Him and healed by the leaves of the trees of life, which we shall minister to them from where they grow by the river of life within the city (Revelation 22:1-2).

Only the most wicked of all, such as Satan, the Antichrist, his false prophet and their most ardent followers will remain in the Lake of Fire to be punished and purged of their diabolical rebelliousness as long as God sees fit, even until such a time as they, too, may have learned their lessons sufficiently for God to forgive them and restore His entire creation to its original perfection where all is well (Revelation 21:8; 22:14-15; Philippians 2:10-11; 1 Timothy 2:4; Ephesians 1:10).

Some of this may be a shock to you, but it's the truth of God's Word. You can read it in the Bible for yourself if you truly want to know the things that will come to pass and if you hunger for the righteousness of God and thirst for His living waters that bring eternal life through His love and the sacrifice of His Son, Jesus Christ (John 5:29; Acts 17:11; Matthew 5:6).

So if you want a new world and a new life under a new good government by God Himself, and would even like to help run it with peace and plenty and happiness for all, why not ask Jesus into your heart today and start telling the world of His love and showing them from the Bible what a wonderful world it's going to be! (See John 1:12; Revelation 3:20; Matthew 5:16.)

Prepare for the future today by receiving Jesus now. Simply pray, "Lord Jesus, please come into my heart and forgive me for all my sins. Help me to love and live for You, to hunger for Your truth, to learn Your Word, and to tell others about Your love, in Jesus' name, amen." God bless you.

Musical perfection is mathematical, but musical inspiration is divine.

There was once a famous actor who was quite an orator. The story is told of how he was invited to come back to the church of his childhood, which his old friend was now pastoring. So he came back and as his contribution to the service he very oratorically recited the Twenty-Third Psalm with all the perfection of the orator and the proper gesticulations and intonations, and so on. When it was done, the people applauded, "Great! Wonderful! Hurrah!" etc.

Then the pastor arose and he said, "If you folks will forgive me, I know you enjoyed that, but I would like to recite the psalm my way this time."

And so he began to recite the psalm, and by the time he was done the people were in tears--moved emotionally. They just lightly and superficially enjoyed the actor they were applauding, the orator, the instrumentalist, so to speak. But when the preacher got done, they were thinking about the Lord.

Watch performers, the difference between the truly greats and the mere perfectionists: The major difference is that the perfectionists, those who have great voices, etc., but who are more interested in their performance and are more conscious of how they are singing and looking and sounding, are often only interested in themselves. It falls flat, nothing but an egotistical display of self.

Whereas the truly great performers make you forget they're performing and make you forget their performance and even forget them, you're so carried away with the emotion of their message and what they're singing about or saying or portraying. They almost fade out of the picture and you're getting the message. These are the truly greats!

The greatest stars are those who don't know they're stars. The greatest men are the ones who didn't know they were great; at least they didn't feel great. What makes you really great is the greatness God gives you, the spirit, the inspiration.

What a difference the Spirit makes! It's the emotional thing: That's the thing that really counts, not a technical perfection.

You have to have the Holy Spirit, which people recognize as something great. You kind of swing with the drama of it and sort of fit in with it and ride the crest, but you have to remember it is not you; it's something divine, the Holy Spirit, so people recognize they're not seeing you--they're seeing the Lord.

We're showing God to the world. They don't know what He's like. The only way they're going to know is by seeing God in you, and that's not you. But if in seeing you they don't see you, they see the Lord, that's the difference.

That's what the world today calls charisma: a kind of a mystical charm, a divine anointing, a supernatural fascination. That's what every really great musician, singer, speaker, performer, or prophet must have: a divine anointing. It ought to really erase the performer in some respects and make you think of God, of the greater one behind the person--not the mere instrument.

When you're watching a movie, do you think of the actor as he is by his own name? No, if he's truly acting and it's great acting, you forget who he really is. He becomes somebody else. He becomes the part he's playing.

God said to Saul, "I will make thee another man" (1 Samuel 10:6), and to David too--God made him another man. He turned him into something he wasn't. It's almost like playing a role.

When God has given you a role to play and you can play it with divine anointing and real inspiration of the Lord and by the power of His Spirit, you become that creation of God. It's the power of God. But you have to have the faith to play the role God has given you to play.

If you're willing to be what God wants you to be--not what you are but what God wants you to be--then He can mightily use you. You might be able to relax and be what you are in private, but out there when you're facing your public, you've got to be what God has made you to be.

He makes the difference between lifeless clay and the alive, pulsating energetic body of a human being! It's the breath of God, the anointing and power of God that makes the difference. Without Him, you're nothing. You'll fall flat as a flounder.

I don't doubt God anointed Herod that day when he spoke as ruler of the people: They said, "It is the voice of a god!" Now there was nothing wrong with him speaking that way, but when he forgot to give God the glory and rebuke the people for giving him the credit, suddenly he was eaten with worms. He fell ill and died. God smote him because he didn't give God the credit (Acts 12:21-23).

One of the biggest dangers you have is to begin thinking it's you. It's God's anointing. If He withdraws it, you're just as flat as ever. It doesn't matter how technically perfect these bands are, they can be dead as a doornail if they lack the power--that supernatural thing, that mysterious mystical power that really reaches people.

A lot of the world's bands have it. The Beatles, for example, had a supernatural spirit that turned people on. "The letter killeth, but the Spirit maketh alive" (2 Corinthians 3:6).

That's what is wrong with some churches today: They've got everything, but they're a flat failure because they've lost the Spirit--no anointing or power, no real emotion, no dramatic mystical charisma. The fire's gone!

What good is the furnace when its fire goes out? It's cold and dark and useless. It's still all there--just no fire. Let the furnace go dead cold and dark and the whole house grows cold, and that's what happened to some churches. The fire's gone out, so the whole house has gotten cold.

It's not the furnace, remember; it's the fire. A bonfire in the back yard of fallen leaves and broken twigs and trash will do more good out there uncontrolled and give you more heat and light and warmth than this mechanical genius, the furnace, this mathematical perfection, without fire. It's marvelous, but without fire it's not as good as the bonfire of trash out in the backyard. It's the fiery anointing that counts! As my grandfather used to say, "If you'll just get on fire for God, the world will come out to see you burn."

I don't care how good the band is, if it's not got the fire, it's just so much "sounding brass and tinkling cymbals" (1 Corinthians 13:1). If you haven't got the fire, no matter how "good" a witness you are, how many verses you learn, how much you understand Bible prophecy and can describe every beast in the book and hang a label on every horn; if you haven't got the fire, it's just cold dead icicles of facts and figures--no warmth, no heat. You'll never set anybody on fire without it!

I think you can even be anointed and spirit-led in driving a car. It doesn't mean you have to climb a light pole to be inspired. But you're thinking and praying about your driving and asking God for wisdom, and He can inspire you. Anything you do--washing dishes, taking care of babies, no matter what it is--you can do it in the Spirit! But if you just have the letter of the law of duty only, it drags you down and turns you off.

If you've got that divine anointing, it makes every little task wonderful! You've got to have a glory in the thing you do, an everlasting glory that'll carry you through. I've had some guys polish my shoes who did it like they could have spit in my face instead of on my shoes. But I've had others get down and sing to the rhythm as they shined my shoes with glory. It was a glory to them and they had an anointing for it.

If your music doesn't affect people, you're just in the entertainment business. If your singing doesn't affect people, if your witness doesn't make them glad or mad or sad, it's just so much hot air and a waste of time. Unless it moves you, what good is it? The business we're in is moving people. We're trying to move them from one place to the other, one life to another, one spirit to another. We're trying to move them!

People not only have to see you, but they've got to see Jesus coming through you. But if it stops dead with you, they'll just go on and figure it was a waste of time. "Not by (thy) might not by (thy) power, but by My Spirit," saith the Lord (Zechariah 4:6). Jesus said, "The Words that I speak unto thee, they are spirit and they are life" (John 6:63).

The words the Pharisees spoke were well educated, but they were flesh and they were death. Why? Because they spoke from their heads and Jesus spoke from His heart--from the Spirit. That's the difference. Whatever you do, you've got to have the Spirit. The body without the spirit is dead (James 2:26). So is every song, every sermon, every witness, every book, every picture, every task, whatever it is, without the Spirit. But the Spirit can make anything glorious! It can make you even clean toilets with an artistic finesse and be proud of the good job you did, and consider it a work of art and a thing of beauty.

You've got to have a glory in the thing you do! The Spirit can turn it on, no matter what it is or who it is, and give it glory and glamour and life.--Beauty, joy and life and heat and everything. You name it. It's the Spirit that makes the difference.

Have you got the Spirit? Has whatever you do got the power, the fire of God? If not, it's dead works. And it'll never set anyone else on fire either. God help you to have the firepower of God's Spirit in all you do. Amen? Praise the Lord. Don't try to work up glamour--pray down glory. Hallelujah!


The Lord returns and rewards and compensates any sacrifices you make for others in trying to help them. If we are willing to obey and willing to do His will and carry on His work, He never fails. He has never failed, as Martin Luther said when somebody complained that he was taking too many people in to his home--and he had about 25 people living with him then. He said, "Never fear, with every additional mouth, God will supply." He not only supplies, but He abundantly supplies, and He lavishes many blessings and good grace on us as we follow His example in living simply and sharing what we have with others.

The Lord has blessed and increased it as our bread was broken. It has increased, and God has been with us and kept us and protected us and supplied every need. He once commanded us in a prophecy to "enlarge our tents and to lengthen our cords and to strengthen the stakes, for He was going to increase us and cause us to be spread abroad throughout the land." Surely He has fulfilled that prophecy!

It has been by starting out with being kind to a few; the Lord has been kind to us in return and caused many others to be kind to us and to care for us in our needs as we have endeavored to bring happiness to others.

I want you to remember that you can never outgive God. When the great David Livingstone, the pioneer missionary to Africa, was asked by a newspaper man, "Hasn't it been a terrible sacrifice for you to leave England to come to this land amongst strangers, enduring hardships and privations and malaria and all of these things?" David Livingstone said, "I have enjoyed life. I have been happy. I have been healthy. I have done a great work for the Lord, and I have never made a sacrifice!" What he was saying was that he couldn't possibly sacrifice for the Lord. It was impossible to outgive God! The more you give, the more He gives back in return.

Who would have even dreamed that this soon, the dreams which we have had in the past would be so marvelously and abundantly fulfilled, both in our household of faith and our missionaries spread abroad throughout the land. But now here we are, and sometimes we can hardly believe it. We've turned to each other and we've said, "Are we dreaming or are we really here in these strange lands of Europe surveying the need, talking to the young people, seeing the tremendous opportunities? It's all like a dream!" And knowing that God is going to do the same here that He has done throughout North America!

It has been your prayers and your faith and your sacrifice, if you want to call it that. But you're giving to God, and you'll never be able to outgive Him, because the Lord has given back abundantly in return.

God's Entrance Exams

I've found that the Lord almost always allows us the most severe test at the very beginning. He usually allows the Enemy to tempt and test me the worst just as I'm considering or about to begin a new task or a new project for Him. We have the most difficult times and the most difficult trials and the most severe tests because God wants you to find out if you're really going to go through with it, live or die, sink or swim, whether you really mean business, whether you're really going to trust Him and whether you have what it takes to see it through. Usually if you pass those first severe hard tests, the Lord stamps your passport with His stamp of approval.

After that, it's not usually as hard as we were afraid it was going to be. As Mark Twain said, "I'm an old man and I've had many troubles, most of which never happened!" Most of the things which we fear, most of the things which we worry about, most of the problems that we thought we were going to encounter never even happened. God didn't let them happen. But the Lord allowed us to think they might happen and to even worry about them a little bit, to see if we were willing to go at any cost, pay any price, make any sacrifice, in order to obey Him.

"The coward dies a thousand deaths, the brave but one," and I'm afraid most of us are cowards, because most of us seem to have to die a thousand deaths before the one real one. We go through all the hell and the agony of dying them before they even happen. Worry can kill you. "Fear hath torment," His Word says, and lack of faith is a terrible, frightening thing (1 John 4:18).

You see, if the Devil can just scare you out before you begin, then you'll never get started and you'll never accomplish what God wants you to do. So for God's sake and the sake of others and your own sake, don't let the Devil frighten you or bluff you out of what the Lord wants you to do before you even get started. That's when he attacks you the worst. That's when the Lord allows him to, because the Lord is testing you to see if you really mean business and to see if you're willing to even die trying.

If you get over the hump of getting started, then you can usually make the rest of the journey! None of the other trials ever seem as great as those in the beginning. Isn't that what you've usually found? Haven't you had greater strength or greater victory as you went along, even though perhaps the later trials in some ways might have actually been more severe and bigger problems, bigger trials, greater tests? You were much stronger to meet them and they were not nearly as difficult to overcome as those trials in the beginning. How true that is. Praise the Lord!

I'll never forget one night I ran with the suitcases a long distance because I thought the train was about to pull out, and I'd prayed that the Lord would stop the train until I got on it. My faith apparently wasn't as strong as it should have been that God was going to do it, but He did. He stopped the train and it didn't leave, and we sat there on the train huffing and puffing and gasping for breath.

We sat there waiting and waiting and waiting for the train to leave. I wondered why in the world the train wouldn't go after it was already way late, and here I'd been afraid it was going to pull out without me. All of a sudden it came to me, "You prayed for Me to stop the train, and you haven't prayed that it would go again!" I said, "OK, Lord. I'm on it. Forgive me. Lord, let it go now." And right away the train started. You tell me God can't do miracles? Some of you may think it was just an accident, but I know it was the Lord. God has done so many little miracles like that for us, besides the big ones.

It's the little things God does that are wonderful! Of course, God also takes care of the big things that have to be done, but the little tiny thoughtfulnesses of the Lord--a market that's open, finding a bathroom scale, finding that your bags weigh just the right weight when you're traveling, is so wonderful. There's nothing too small for the Lord or too hard for Him!

Why do you worry? Why do you fret? God's going to take care of every little detail. Each time I thought, "Maybe this is it. Maybe we just can't make it, because surely this is going to be the door that's going to be closed; this is going to be the impossible situation. Lord, You brought us this far, but here's where we can't make it any further; it's impossible."

We have seen one miracle after another, one fleece after another that the Lord honored. Time and again, the Lord did the miracle. I wonder how many times you've put out a condition to the Lord for something, kind of hoping that maybe He wouldn't do it so you wouldn't have to do it. Then the Lord just knocked the props out from under you and jerked the rug out from under you and took away all your excuses and did all the miracles, so that the decision still had to be up to you and you had no excuses for not going on with the Lord because He'd opened the door, He'd provided the way, and made everything possible! That's exactly what the Lord did for us. In every little thing, it was just miracle after miracle after miracle.

Lift up holy hands unto the Lord (Psalm 134:2). Clap your hands unto the Lord, all ye people (Psalm 47:1)! Lift up your hands unto the Lord. Lift up your voices unto the Lord, all ye lands. For the Lord, He is good. He is God and it is He that has made us, and not we ourselves. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture (Psalm 100:3). Hallelujah! We're nothing, but God has increased us and strengthened us and prospered us and given us many souls. Nothing is impossible with God, and all things are possible to him that believeth (Luke 1:37; Mark 9:23). God is a God of miracles, so let's thank Him for it!

You never have a victory without a battle, and there are some battles you have to fight your whole life until your dying day! But you have to keep getting the victory. You can't just "forsake all" once and for all. You've got to keep "forsaking all" every day. You can't just be a martyr one day; you're a martyr your whole life! You have to keep leaving Egypt every day or you're going to build up a new Egypt. It's just something you've got to do every day.

Life for the Lord is not something about which you say, "Well, hallelujah! I made that victory. I got over that, and now I'm free! I don't have to sacrifice anymore. I don't have to hurt anymore. I don't have to suffer anymore. I've got the victory! I've won the battle and the war is over, and now I'm going to settle down and be selfish and unsacrificial and enjoy life."

David said, "I will not give unto the Lord of that which hath cost me nothing" (2 Samuel 24: 24). He was saying, "It's got to hurt to be worth something. It's got to be a sacrifice." What is a sacrifice? It's something you lay on the altar. It's something you kill.

You have to fight the Devil and your old self every day. You are a new creature, yes, but how that old self likes to try to pop up again! Paul said, "I've fought a good fight"--and most of it was probably against his old self (2 Timothy 4:7). It's a battle every day--especially with your besetting sins--"the weights and the sins that so easily beset you" (Hebrews 12:1), like selfishness, laziness, and jealousy.

Some people have the idea that you start off your Christian life with your biggest battles, like getting saved. Those are just little ones. That's just a starter! Once you pass the little tests, then He starts giving you bigger ones. And if you think just because you have a one-time victory you've got victory once and for all, you sure are mistaken!

Some people have the idea that once they're saved, that's it. They've given their heart to the Lord, but they go on living for themselves. They think they've already made their sacrifice, so now they don't have to make any more. The truth is that you keep making more and more sacrifices every day, dying daily. The Lord keeps testing you with bigger and tougher and better ones, so that you grow and get stronger with every battle, and you win bigger victories all the time.

You never stop battling, you never stop winning victories, you never stop progressing, or you'll backslide. You can never stand still. You don't just get the victory once and for all over some besetting sin; you have to keep fighting it. But the more you win, the easier it gets, with His help--on that one.

You think you have "forsaken all"? I've never found anybody yet who'd forsaken all forever--until they forsook their life! You have to keep forsaking every day. If you don't keep forsaking every day, you keep accumulating every day. Because stuff is constantly piling up in your life, and if you don't constantly get rid of it, you'll be up to your neck in clutter.

Just like you keep eating food every day, and if you don't have good elimination every day, think what you would be. You'd be a human septic tank! You'd soon die. To say, "I finally got the victory over forsaking" is like saying, "I finally got the victory over going to the toilet. I don't have to get rid of anything anymore. I don't have to keep eliminating anymore--I got the victory over it!" With that kind of victory, you'll soon die. Like the story about the farmer with his cow: He said he got her off feed and he'd have gotten her off water too if she hadn't died!

Some of you seem to think you can get the victory once and for all over something and you'll never have another battle. But that's where the Devil is apt to test you the most, on the one thing where your weak spot is, your Achilles heel, your greatest weakness, your besetting sin, your greatest temptation. Or the one thing that is dearest to you, or the area that is most important to you.

That's the trouble with some Christians. They say, "Lord, here is my dearest Isaac. Here is my sacrifice. I'm going to lay it on the altar now. Lord, see, it's all Yours." And then they pick it up and walk off with it again! Some people go to church on Sunday morning and sing, "Just as I am, without one plea. I surrender all"--and then they get up and walk out with it just like they came in, and they don't "surrender all" at all!

Let's face it: you will never get total victory until you are dead. You have to keep sacrificing and keep forsaking all and keep battling and keep winning the victory every day--and usually even a bigger battle with a bigger victory. And if you win this one, then the Lord is going to trust you with a bigger one next time.

It says in 2 Timothy 2:3: "Endure hardness, as a good soldier." And the more you're a soldier, the tougher you get! The more you're able to take, the more you're able to give up, the more you're able to forsake, the more you're able to suffer, the more you're able to sacrifice, the more you're able to stand wounds and hurts, then the tougher, stronger, and harder soldier you become.

But "forsaking all" and sacrificing isn't just a one-time thing. It's not something you just do once and for all and get it over with and never have to do again. It's something you have to do almost every day--die daily. Every day He'll probably have you sacrifice a little more to see if He can trust you with more responsibility, if you can become stronger and tougher and a better fighter. He'll give you more and He'll trust you with more if he finds out you can give up more, if He finds out you won't get so attached to it that you won't give it up.

It's like the rich man that had such a big harvest and so many riches that, instead of deciding to share with others, he decided to build bigger barns to hold more for himself (Luke 12). It wasn't the big crop which God gave him that was his sin. Being rich is not a sin. It's being unwilling to share and give the poor those riches. It wasn't the barns that were his sin, but that he could have been passing out food from those barns to the poor, but didn't. It was the barniness, the selfishness of his heart that was the sin.

God entrusts some men with riches in order that they might share them with those who need them. There have been some Christian captains of industry who felt a great responsibility for the employment of the poor. If their business failed, thousands of people would be out of work. They shared their riches and its fruits, their industry, their factory, their business with others. It gave tremendous employment, sometimes to thousands. As long as they were faithful in their responsibility and continued to share and made it possible for others to have their fair share, God trusted them with even more. The more you give, the more He will give you

It's the too-rich industrialists and selfish capitalists who covet it all and want more than their rightful share, and withhold from the poor and withhold the hire of the laborers that reap down their fields. They are the ones that God is displeased with. It says that the canker of their gold and their silver shall be a witness against them (James 5:3). In other words, the rust or corrosion of that wealth from disuse will testify that they didn't use it and share it with others.

Some riches get dull and tarnished if you don't use or polish them, and that's corrosion, oxidation, or rust from disuse. The utensil or silver that is used all the time keeps a high polish from just being used. But something you put away and you don't use very much, like the silver in the drawer of the rich, has to be taken out every month by the maid and polished again because it hasn't been used. It is better to wear out than rust out! Better to wear out from use than rust out from disuse!

I've heard some people say: "But the Lord gave me this house. The Lord gave me this business. I couldn't give it up now! God gave me all this money. He certainly wouldn't expect me to forsake it now." That's what He gave it to you for, so you could share it--for His will, or give it to the poor or let God use it in some way.

That morning when Jesus helped the fishermen catch the biggest load of fish they had ever caught, and then He said, "Come, follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men!" What if they had said, "But, Lord, You just got through giving us this huge miraculous catch of fish. You gave it to us! We shouldn't go off and forsake it." No, "they forsook all and followed Him" (Luke 5:10-11).

Abraham could have said that about Isaac: "But, Lord, You gave him to me. This is the child of promise, the one You gave me by a miracle! You don't expect me to give up this child." But no, when God said give him back, he obeyed. And God gave Isaac back to Abraham and blessed him and let his seed be "as the stars of the heaven and the sands of the sea" (Genesis 22:16-18).

"Let us not be weary in well doing, for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not" (Galatians 6:9), "lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds" (Hebrews 12:3). The Devil only wins when you surrender. But he can never win as long as you keep fighting. "Resist the Devil and he will flee from you" (James 4:7). As long as you keep resisting, he'll keep fleeing. But if you stop resisting, he uses his lies and temptations and persuasions to win. If you stop fighting and surrender, he wins.

Building the Lord's work is something you never get done, till you die. Building a life, you never get done till you die! There is always more to do. It comes down to this whole thing of life: it is to prepare you for the next life, when in the Millennium you are going to have to learn how to run the whole world. (See Revelation 20:4.)

You can't keep on coasting on yesterday's victories and yesterday's accomplishments. You can't just rest on yesterday's laurels. "But, Lord, look what I did for You yesterday!" He'll probably reply, "But what have you done for Me today?" My mother used to say, "There is no discharge in this war." You fight it until the day you die in it, and die for the cause. He's trying to make you stronger every day and able to give a little more, sacrifice a little more, suffer a little more, fight a little more, grow a little more.

He wants you to grow into the stature of a full-grown mature Christian that is a real fighter for the Lord and a soldier, one who's able to stand a lot of responsibility, a lot of suffering, a lot of sacrifice, a lot of giving, and can do a big job, not just little ones. God's Word even says of Jesus that, "He grew in stature and in wisdom and in favor with God and man" (Luke 2:52).

Jesus "learned obedience through the things which He suffered" (Hebrews 5:8). Every day we learn some new obedience, just like a little child. Every day he learns something new.

A lot of Christians stop growing when they are only a few years old, and they never grow up, never mature. They didn't grow any further than a few years old. They thought that was enough, that they'd learned so much by that time, they didn't have to learn any more.

My mother used to say, "The worst place in the world for a Christian is a comfortable place." It's got to hurt a little bit or it's not a sacrifice. What makes a mother's love for her baby so marvelous? It's so totally sacrificial. She gives her all. She suffers for that baby. She gives up herself and her time and her strength and her sleep, and it costs something; it's a sacrifice.

They wanted busy Dr. D. L. Moody to speak at a luncheon once. They said, "Dr. Moody, you only have to talk about ten minutes--it won't take much out of you." He replied, "Well, then, I'll have to refuse, because if it won't take much out of me, it's not worth going!"

Things that are really worthwhile cost something! This isn't a bargain-counter religion. It's not something you get cut prices on and a shortcut to heaven. You've got to go the hard way and the rough way and take the knocks and make the sacrifices and die daily and suffer, and it costs something.

Not only do you have to die daily, but you have to love daily and sacrifice daily and pay the price daily. It costs something! It even hurts daily. The greater the sacrifice, the greater the reward. We may have enough victory for today, but then comes tomorrow, and we'll have greater battles and greater victories--if we keep faithfully running the race that is set before us (Hebrews 12:1).

The only reason you sometimes have to go back and do the same grade this year is because you flunked it last year. My God, I don't want to have to go through some of these things again. I don't want to have to take the same grade over again! I want to go on to the next grade. "Ever learning," sooner or later we ought to "come to a knowledge," and not have to keep learning the same lesson over and over and over again (2 Timothy 3:7). The grades get tougher all the time, but you're more ready for it each time because you've just won the last one. Each grade you progress a little and get greater victories.

"Greater things than these shall ye do" (John 14:12). To get greater victories, you have to keep fighting greater battles. For greater rewards, you have to keep making greater sacrifices. And for greater joys, you have to keep suffering greater pains. To get back more, you've got to keep giving up more, forsaking more. If you're going to keep forsaking more every day, the Lord is going to keep giving you back more.

So for God's sake, let's learn our lesson today and get it down pat so we don't have to learn this one over again tomorrow. But don't get me wrong. Some things do get easier. You don't usually have to fight the same battles over again if you get the victory. Otherwise it would be too hard and a losing game.

God bless you and help you to gain greater victories every day! It's really thrilling to look back and see your own progress. To look back down that rugged mountain road you've just come over and to see you're really getting somewhere. But it's even more thrilling to look forward and up to heights you're soon to attain and views you're soon to thrill to if you keep fighting, climbing, winning and don't quit.


God help you to keep on winning battles and greater victories, until you win the greatest and last of all: death--that graduation to the heavenly world of the hereafter with a crown of glorious eternal life with Him forever. Life and love forever!


Most people today seem to put the stories of Jesus and His disciples way back in the past. They're looked on as fairy tales. They've no real reality to them. It's all 'way far away––God is far away, Heaven is far away, Jesus has long been dead, everything's so far away!

But the things of the Lord can still happen today! He's just as real as ever and can still do the same, and even more so. God is still alive, well, and working just as powerfully as ever amongst those that trust in Him! He says, "I am the Lord, I change not" (Malachi 3:6) and "Jesus Christ: The same yesterday, today and forever" (Hebrews 13:8). "He that believeth on Me," Jesus said, "the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do, because I go unto My Father" (John 14:12). "And these signs shall follow them that believe ... they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover" (Mark 16:17-18).

So the day of miracles is not past! God is still in the business of transforming the bodies that need it, as well as the hearts, the minds and the spirits.––To heal is a small thing for Him, the God of Creation! If He can create the body, He certainly can repair it! The One Who made us can certainly fix us! He says, "unto you that fear My name, shall the sun of righteousness arise with healing in his wings" (Malachi 4:2).

Troubles, trials and tribulations––Why?

Does the Lord protect us, His children, from all accidents and sickness and trouble?––Or does He often let us have a lot of trouble? There is no sure guarantee that you are never going to get sick with anything as long as you are in human flesh.

The Lord never said we wouldn't have illnesses and afflictions, but He did say that He would deliver us out of them all.––"Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all" (Psalm 34:19).

Naturally, we usually wonder why these things happen, but God always has a reason, and I believe nothing happens by accident to one of His children! I have found in my own life, and that of many others, that He always has a purpose for them, although it is not always revealed immediately!

The Lord sometimes uses afflictions, sicknesses and so on to test us and to cause us to draw closer to Him and cry out to Him and really seek the Lord. Someone once said, "God does some things to make you humble, other things to keep you humble, and yet others to make sure you're still humble."––Otherwise we would have a tendency to just rock along. It causes us to rely more on the Lord.

So sometimes things happen just to keep you close to the Lord, humble and more dependent on Him.––Sometimes things happen to make you pray––all kinds of reasons for even having troubles.

Even Jesus "learned obedience through the things which He suffered!" (Hebrews 5:8)––We know Jesus was perfect and didn't bring these things on Himself by sin. The Lord allows these things to strengthen our faith.

So sometimes there are even occasions on which it isn't necessarily something you did wrong––like the blind man in the Bible, who was blind from birth, whom Jesus said was blind not because of his own sins, nor even the sins of his parents, "but that the works of God should be made manifest in him", whereupon He promptly healed him, to prove the point! (See the Gospel of John, chapter 9.)

Sometimes maybe you'll be sick so that God can do a miracle and heal you and it will be a testimony, even if you weren't bad and did nothing wrong to deserve it. Maybe God let you get sick so that He could heal you, to show that He can heal and to demonstrate His power.

But whatever the reason, always remember that whatever God does, He does it in love.––And "all things work together for good to them that love the Lord." (Romans 8:28) God is not going to let anything happen to you, His child who loves Him, except what is for your good. You may say, "But a lot of things happen that don't seem good to me!"––Well I daresay you finally found out sooner or later that somehow or another it was good for you.––Or you will yet! This is why King David said in his Psalms, "It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn Thy statutes." "Before I was afflicted I went astray: But now (after he was afflicted) have I kept Thy Word" (Psalm 119:71,67). Hallelujah! So even troubles and tribulations are good for us.––Thank the Lord! God knows best! And even though it sometimes may take weeks, months or years before you know why, the time will come, and you'll know God was right and did the right thing!

Healing is for you!

Although "many are the afflictions of the righteous", the Lord is going to "deliver you out of them all" (Psalm 34:19)––no matter how many or what! A-L-L, ALL!––Not just some or a few or most or many, but all!––All of them! We can expect God to deliver us according to His Word!

The provision is there for you! There are lots of Scriptures on healing throughout the entire Bible, God's personal Word to each of us. He has made promises in His Word, promises which we can claim and expect Him to fulfill. "There are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: That by these (His promises) ye might be partakers of the Divine Nature" (Peter 1:4).

This is also where your faith will come from. Faith comes––it grows by hearing the Word of God. It's not a sudden boom. "For faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God" (Romans 10:17).––That's the law of faith.

But how often lack of faith is due to ignorance! If you feel like, "Oh, my God, I just don't have much faith for God to heal me!"––it's because you don't have the Word. Faith is built on the Word: Read it prayerfully and ask God to strengthen your faith. He'll always answer the hungry heart. His Word will give you faith for it.

God cannot only do it, but he wants to do it! When the poor leper came to Jesus and said, "Lord, if Thou wilt, Thou canst make me clean", the Scripture says that "Jesus put forth His hand and touched him, saying, 'I will, be thou clean.'––And immediately his leprosy was cleansed." (Matthew 8:2,3)––He's more willing to give than we are to receive!

All He asks from us is that we honour Him with faith, by believing His Word and His promises. "For without faith it is impossible to please Him: For He that cometh to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him!" (Hebrews 11:6) Trust in the Lord!––"He hath never failed in one of all His good promises!" (1Kings 8:56)

"With His stripes ..." (Isaiah 53:5)

There is salvation both for the body and for the spirit. Just as Jesus' blood was shed for the salvation of our spirits, His body was broken for the healing of our bodies. He died for your salvation, but He suffered for your healing.

"He Himself took our infirmities and bare our sicknesses in His Own body on the tree" (Matthew 8:17; 1Peter 2:24). "For He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities: The chastisement of our peace was upon Him; and with his stripes* we are healed" (Isaiah 53:5). * The original Hebrew word translated here as "stripes" literally means "bruise, hurt, stripe, wound."––Strong's Bible Concordance.

What does it mean, "With His stripes we are healed"?––There is some form of atonement, even for our diseases. He paid for it by His physical suffering. So we can claim it, even as a part of His atonement. We can claim it as a part of what He paid for. It's yours already for the asking.

"The great physician now is near, the sympathising Jesus. He speaks, the drooping heart to cheer. Oh! Hear the voice of Jesus!"

We who have personally received Jesus into our hearts already have His healing power manifest in our bodies through the Lord's healing. (See Romans 18:11.) But it will not be really complete until we receive our eternal supernatural indestructible bodies on which death and sickness no longer have any power or claim whatsoever.

Healing is a sample, like salvation. When we experience salvation, we get a little sample of what eternal salvation and Heaven are going to be like. We have a little bit of Heaven in our hearts already! We have "tasted of the Heavenly gift and the powers of the world to come", as His Word says (Hebrews 6:4-5).

Likewise, when we get healed we have a little sample of what God is going to do one of these days. He'll not only give you one new part or fix you up a little bit or repair you, but He is going to give you a whole new Heavenly model! (See 1Corinthians 15:42-58.)

But in the meantime, we're still bound by our corruptible fleshly human bodies, and about all God's doing now through healing is patching us up to make us last a little longer. Like an old car, He can patch you up a little bit and keep repairing you.––And that's really what this lesson is all about: How to receive His healing and "repair service" while here in these old mortal bodies that often break down and give us so much trouble!

Prayer power!

"The prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up, and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him." (James 5:15)

Prayer is powerful! When we pray, things will happen and things will be different. God will answer prayer. But God said to Israel one time that bad things were happening because, "No man stirreth himself to call upon Me" (Isaiah 64:7).

But if you're really desperate and crying with your whole heart and asking Him, He'll answer! He says, "Ye shall seek Me, and find Me, when ye shall search for Me with all your heart" (Jeremiah 29:13). And "Call unto Me, and I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things, which thou knowest not" (Jeremiah 33:3).

And remember, you've got all the promises in the whole Bible on your side!––"Exceeding great and precious promises" (2 Peter 1:4). So when you pray, bring those promises with you. When you remind God of His Word, it shows you have faith in it. It's a positive declaration of your faith and your knowledge of the Word which pleases God. (See Colossians 1:10; Hebrews 11:6; 1John 3:22.)

"Prove Me now herewith, saith the Lord, and see if I will not pour out such a blessing that there will not be room enough to hold it" (Malachi 3:10). You don't see the blessing yet. How do you know He's going to pour it out? You've only got His Word for it.––You've got to prove Him! You've got to try. You have to literally test it. You have to challenge God.

He even tells us, "concerning the work of My hands, command ye Me" (Isaiah 45:11).––So hold Him to His Word! Demand and expect an answer! He has promised it! Put your faith in the Lord, and quote and claim Scriptures, just like Jesus did. (See Matthew 4:4,7,10.) Stand on the Word!––That solid Rock Foundation of Truth.

He is bound by His Word! So remind Him of it, cling to His promises, memorise and quote them continually, and never doubt for a moment that God is going to answer––and He will! He has to! He wants to! Trust Him!

Jesus says, "what things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them and ye shall have them" (Mark 11:24). "And this is the confidence that we have in Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He heareth us: And if we know that He hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of Him" (1John 5:14-15).––All we have to do is believe His promises and pray, and expect some kind of an answer.

The Lord can help, and nothing is impossible with the Lord. He is "able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think" (Ephesians 3:20). We just need to believe in Him and trust Him and pray for it. "The things which are impossible with men are possible with God, and all things are possible to him that believeth" (Luke 18:27; Mark 9:23). Hallelujah!

The "fiery furnace"

But sometimes the Lord does not always answer us right away, which tests our faith and draws us closer to Him in the Spirit as we are driven to Him and His Word, to Whom and which we might not otherwise give so much time and attention.

The apostle Paul had an affliction or "thorn in the flesh"* till the day of his death to keep him humble! He couldn't even be trusted with full health because it probably would have made him too full of pride, since he'd been honoured by the Lord in so many other ways.

* The original Greek word translated here as "thorn" literally means "a bodily annoyance or disability."––Strong's Bible Concordance.

He said, "lest I should be exalted above measure, there was given unto me a thorn in the flesh. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. But He said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: For My strength is made perfect in weakness" (2Corinthians 12:7-9).

All of us also have weaknesses that are our "thorns in the flesh." For if we didn't have any of these weaknesses and we were all so perfect, we couldn't help others much; we couldn't be sympathetic or compassionate if we were so self-righteous and unblemished. We couldn't even understand them. So sometimes we may be a lot more useful to the Lord with our afflictions and weaknesses––or a whole lot more humble and believing––than if Lord were to heal us.

Paul's thorn in the flesh didn't keep him from serving the Lord! It didn't negate his service for God! He didn't quit and give up just because he had a little thorn in the flesh (which sounds like bad eyes). (See Galatians 4:13-15.)

God wants to test your faith and willingness to obey before He's going to heal you, and He wants to see if you'll believe and obey Him even if you think you may never get healed! Why should He honour you with healing when you don't honour Him with faith? You've got to believe and obey the Lord even if He never heals you!

Like the three Hebrew children who were thrown into the fiery furnace for refusing to renounce their faith and bow down to the King of Babylon's idol: They said, "Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and He will deliver us out of thy hand. ... But if not, be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship thy golden image" (Daniel 3:17-18).

And it looked like the end, because into the furnace they went, and the flames were so hot it even killed their executioners! But because of their faith and obedience, God was with them, and they came out without even the smell of smoke on them! (See Daniel 3.)

Faith and obedience come first, then God answers prayer. "For the trying of your faith is more precious than gold, yea, than much fine gold! When thou hast passed through the fire, thou shalt come forth as gold. For every man's work shall be tried, and it shall be known what substance it is, whether it be of wood, hay or stubble, or whether it be of precious things, as gold and silver and precious stones; and that which is of no avail shall be burned up, but that which is of precious things shall endure" (1Peter 1:7; 1Corinthians 3:12-15).

"For behold", he says, "I have refined thee, but not with silver; I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction." (Isaiah 48:10) So "think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you" (1Peter 4:12). By His miracle working power, things that seem do not have to be––just like the three Hebrew children. You may have to go through the fire, but the Lord is easily able to bring you out without even smelling of smoke! He says, "Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh: Is there anything too hard for Me?" (Jeremiah 32:27).

Afflictions and illnesses are usually a real test, but they often end in bitterness and murmuring: People hold it against God because He won't heal them!––"If He'd do it, then I'd serve Him.––But He doesn't love me, He doesn't care, because He won't heal me!"

Such doubt, fear, discouragement and murmuring kill! Look at all that murmuring older generation of Israel that died in the wilderness for their lack of faith! They "suffered so many things in vain!" (Galatians 3:4) They did all the suffering and never got to enjoy the benefits because they complained! The people that complain about the battle and then quit just before the victory's won never get to enjoy it!

But faith, trust, courage and praising the Lord maketh alive! If you wanna knock the Devil for a loop, just start praising the Lord no matter what's happening! He just can't stand it! He turns tail and runs! "Resist the Enemy and he shall flee from thee, for perfect love casteth out fear; for God hath not given us a spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind! Therefore, Thou shalt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on Thee, because he trusteth in Thee" (James 4:7; 1John 4:18; 2Timothy 1:7; Isaiah 26:3). Hallelujah!

God gets His greatest victories out of seeming defeat, and He often brings them along the neglected path of praise! So when things look darkest, don't look down!––Look up! Don't murmur and complain!––Start praising the Lord, and you'll often praise your way right out of the pit into which the Devil is trying to cast you!

Praise is the voice of faith!

More conditions for getting healed––and staying healed!

Our happiness and our health and our blessings in this life depend on our obedience to God. If we're not willing to pay the price God requires for healing, He won't heal us! Only the obedient get healing. It's a reward for the obedient. Health is a special blessing of God and we can only demand it if we're obedient. But if we're disobedient we can't demand anything!

God can and wants to heal us, but we must first be willing and yielded to Him and make the decision that we want to be delivered without reservations! We must correct any spiritual problems first––then trust God utterly in prayer and obedience and we're bound to get results!

Sometimes that's why we get sick in the first place: Because God is chastening or spanking us. He is punishing us for something––not always, but sometimes. It hurts Him to see people being bad, because He loves them, and He knows their badness hurts them, so He tries to correct them to make them see the light and to cause them to turn and repent and confess.

But even God's spankings are proof of His love and done in love!––"For whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom He receiveth!" (Hebrews 12:6) And even when we get sick because of our sins, the Bible says in the 13th verse of this same chapter, "rather let it be healed".

God is merciful. He is a loving God, a merciful God.––"For as the Heaven is high above the Earth, so great is His mercy toward them that fear Him. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear Him, for He knoweth our frame, He remembereth that we are dust." (Psalm 103:11-14)

"For the Lord will not cast off forever: And though He cause grief, yet will He have compassion according to the multitude of His mercies. For He doth not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men." (Lamentations 3:31-33)

So when we have learned the lesson God is trying to teach us, or the conditions are ready for the result God wants to bring, He says, "rather let it be healed." God prefers to heal––if we can be trusted with it, learn what He is trying to show us, and let it accomplish His purpose!

This same principle also applies to us after we've received His healing.––If we do not obey and stay in God's will and continually give Him the glory for our healing and continue to trust Him for it, He may let the illness or affliction come back, because of our ingratitude and disobedience. Of course, if we repent, He can forgive and heal us again, "for His mercy endureth forever." (Psalm 136)

His healing is a special blessing, a priceless privilege, which, unlike salvation, He can take away if you don't keep trusting Him for it and giving Him all the glory. So if you want to keep it, you'd best obey Him––like a loan, like living on borrowed time: When you're healed, you'd better stay close to the Lord and do the things that He healed you for. Use that strength that God gives you in healing for His glory!––Amen?

In conclusion

Of course, one of the greatest of healing factors is faith, to know that God loves you and cares for you and is going to take care of you no matter what happens. Faith even eliminates one of the greatest causes of disease and ill health, and that's fear and tension.

Because then you have peace of mind and you can just rest in the Lord knowing He's going to take care of everything. Faith and trust in God gives you a feeling of rest of body, peace of mind, contentment of heart and spiritual well-being, which all tend to greatly improve your whole state of well-being.

Do you have faith in God and His love?––have you personally met the great physician––He who has "healing in His wings"? If not, all you have to do is receive Jesus, God's Son, as your Saviour by asking Him into your heart! You can do it right now, if you want God's answer to all of your problems and His love and happiness to fill your heart and life "with joy unspeakable and full of glory!" (1Peter 1:8)

He can give you everything you've always wanted, including forgiveness of sins, faith in God, love in Christ, something to really live and work for, peace of mind, health of body and joy and happiness and love and laughter forever after! He'll meet all your needs and solve all your problems! He's just that wonderful, and it's all just that simple! Why not try Him?

"Wilt thou be made whole?" (John 5:6)––In body, mind and spirit?––Then receive Jesus now! Simply recognise and confess your own need for a Saviour from your sins, and personally receive the Spirit of Jesus Christ Himself into your own heart in a definite individual decision. He says, "Behold, I stand at the door (of your heart) and knock: If any man hear My voice and open the door, I will come into him." (Revelation 3:20)––Just open up and let the Sun shine in!

And please remember, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure and a stitch in time saves nine! It's better to stay healthy than to have to be healed, so do your best to prevent illness by keeping God's health laws. Proper diet, proper exercise, proper rest and proper living will keep almost anyone healthy.

But if and when you do need His healing, remember, it's there for you! All you have to do is reach out your hand of faith and receive it, accept it. "He healeth all our diseases!" (Psalm 103:3)––No exceptions! He can heal anything! "I am the Lord that healeth thee!" (Exodus 15:26)

Have desperate prayer––and expect a miracle! "Believe and ye shall receive!" (Mark 11:24) You do your part, and the rest is up to God. God bless and keep you! Expect miracles!––And in Jesus' name you'll get them!

To cry to the Lord in prayer is something that should come naturally to every truly born-again child of God. God expects each of His children, those who really know Him, to touch Him personally and make direct contact with Him, not just through somebody else's prayers or faith. Therefore each of us must learn to individually make personal, intimate contact with the Lord through prayer, the heavenly link, the divine telephone between us and heaven.

Even though our "heavenly Father knoweth what things we have need of before we ask Him" (Matthew 6:8), He likes us to confess that we alone can't solve all of our problems and that we need His help. He likes us to be humble and willing to pray, to acknowledge His power and show our faith in Him by asking Him for help. Then, of course, He likes to answer, not only to remind us that we need Him, but also because He likes us to appreciate His help and to love Him for it--like a father.

That's the way we parents often feel with our own small children--we like to answer their questions and solve their problems and give them answers--if they'll ask. But a lot of times they just try to struggle through on their own. I've often told one of my frustrated young children, "Why didn't you ask me to help you?" And it's the same sort of situation with us and the Lord: He likes for us to ask Him for His help, as this is what shows our faith in Him and His Word, divine guidance, and parental love.

The Lord loves to give us the answers to our problems and questions and troubles. He knows exactly what to do and how to do it, and wants us to ask Him for His guidance. He says, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you: For everyone that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened" (Matthew 7:7-8).

He even goes on to say, "For what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask Him?" (Matthew 7:9-11).

All we have to do is ask and He promised we'd receive. If we really seek the answer, we will find it! So don't ever think you have to try to figure out all your problems and decisions yourself. Get down in prayer and get God's answers. He says, "Call unto Me, and I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not" (Jeremiah 33:3).

"Without Him you can do nothing" (John 15:5), but with Him, you can "do all things through Christ which strengtheneth you" (Philippians 4:13). So when you really need help, tell it to Jesus. "Cast thy burden upon the Lord and He shall sustain thee. Cast all your cares upon Him, for He careth for you" (Psalm 55:22; 1 Peter 5:7). Jesus said, "My yoke is easy and My burden is light." But there's one condition to it--"come unto Me" (Matthew 11:28-30). When you come to the Lord in prayer and faith, and ask Him for the answers, you'll get them.

This is what prayer is all about. It is not merely some kind of religious ritual, but a living relationship. As that dear hymn says:

What a friend we have in Jesus,
All our sins and griefs to bear.
What a privilege to carry,
Everything to God in prayer.
Oh, what peace we often forfeit.
Oh, what needless pain we bear.
All because we do not carry,
Everything to God in prayer."--Joseph M. Scriven (1820-1886).
The Lord's shoulders are broad enough to carry any load--all the burdens put together, including His own. So it's really important to learn to pray and commit our burdens, trials, and needs to Him.

Hearing from heaven

With many people, prayer is a one-way conversation, and they do all the talking. They pray, "Hear, Lord, Thy servant speaketh," instead of like dear Samuel, the child prophet, who at five years of age said, "Speak, Lord, Thy servant heareth" (1 Samuel 3:10). You'll get a lot further that way, listening to the Lord instead of talking so much that you don't even have a chance to hear what He has to say.

Prayer is not just getting down on your knees and speaking your piece, but letting God speak His, too. This is why each of us is supposed to know the Lord personally and be filled with the Holy Spirit and therefore be led by the Spirit individually, so that we can personally seek the Lord and find the answers for ourselves that we need for our own individual cases.

This is actually the greatest thing that each of us needs to learn--to follow God and to hear from Him fresh every day. You can't just get inspired once and let that do for the rest of your life. It's like eating: One meal doesn't last you even one full day, and it certainly doesn't last you for weeks and months. And just as you've got to eat every day, you've also got to get inspired every day. You need fresh food of the Spirit, fresh power of the Spirit, milk of the Word, fire from on high to inspire you day after day.

We all need to hear from God. It doesn't have to be out loud; it doesn't have to be with an audible voice. It can just be in that "still small voice" (1 Kings 19:12) that you feel inside of you, sometimes not even words, just an impression that you have. God doesn't have to communicate in words; He can just give you a feeling or a picture or an idea.

His Spirit is like a broadcasting station, broadcasting all the time; you just have to learn how to tune in. If you've got an open channel and tune in, the Lord will fill you--your mind, your heart, your ears, your eyes. You just have to have faith. Jesus can speak anytime, anywhere, if you believe. So when you ask the Lord for an answer, expect an answer.

If you really believe and ask the Lord, and you want to hear or see, you won't be disappointed. And that thing you see or hear with the eyes or ears of your spirit will come from the Lord--and it will be such a comfort to you. Expect God to answer. Just open up your heart and let the sunshine in. If you're really desperate and crying with your whole heart and are asking Him, He'll answer.

Quiet time

If you're always hurrying and rushing around, fretting and impatient, you'll never be able to focus your full attention--your eyes, your ears, your mind, your heart--on the Lord for the solutions to the problems, the answers to the questions, the best decisions for the situations.

Unless you get quiet and try to seek the Lord, how are you ever going to get anything from the Lord? He says, "Be still, and know that I am God. In quietness and confidence shall your strength be" (Psalm 46:10; Isaiah 30:15). You're going to have to get quiet by yourself--somewhere, somehow, sometime--if you're going to hear from the Lord.

Every great man of God, from Moses to Jesus, had to retreat alone to his mountain for a while in order to have time to meditate, pray, and commune with God. My Lord, if Jesus Himself had to do it, how much more we need to do it! Jesus had to get up at the break of day before His disciples got up and walk out across the hills or up in the mountain to get alone with God and get His orders for the day from His Father (Mark 1:35; Luke 6:12).

So start the day off right: hear from the Lord. You need it, or things just won't go as they should. If you neglect your fellowship with the King of kings because you're so busy with the affairs of the kingdom, it can be disastrous to your spiritual life and communion with the Lord. You cannot do the Master's work without the Master's power and guidance. And to get it, you must spend time with the Master.

So try a little prayer time early in the morning before your day's work. Asking the Lord for the solutions to problems is the easiest way in the world to get them. If you'd spend a little more time praying, you'd probably spend a lot less time working and trying to get things done.

He'll solve a lot of your problems before the day even starts if you listen to what He has to say. But if you go plunging into all your troubles and your work without stopping to talk to the Lord and get directions from your Commander in Chief, then you're going to be like a soldier who's trying to fight the war all on his own without listening to headquarters, with no guidance from the top.

We all need more quiet time with the Lord in rest and refilling, drinking of the living water of His Word and fellowshipping with Him in the communion of prayer and the sweet lovemaking of the Spirit. It just totally renews you and completely refreshes you and gives you new vision and fresh inspiration, new strength, rest and peace and joy. For "they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint" (Isaiah 40:31).

"In all thy ways acknowledge Him" (Proverbs 3:6).

Although we should spend some quiet time with the Lord every day--time in prayer and reading His Word--Jesus also told us that we should always pray, that we should continually pray all the time, all day long, that in everything we do we ought to be "looking unto Jesus" (Hebrews 12:2).

"Men ought always to pray and not to faint" (Luke 18:1). He also says, "Watch and pray" (Matthew 26:41), and Paul says "Pray without ceasing" (1 Thessalonians 5:17). He knows that we need to, and it's one way the Lord has of keeping us close to Him and in His presence continually, constantly dependent upon Him and His protection.

Prayer is something you should be doing all the time, no matter what else you're doing. You can't wait until you're through doing this or that, and then pray. It's like thinking on your feet. Or like breathing--just breathing the Holy Spirit all the time, being in constant communication with the Lord.

He says, "Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not to thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy paths" (Proverbs 3:5-6). This is one of the most wonderful verses in the Bible to hang on to, especially when making decisions. We don't have to know all the answers, we don't have to lean on our own ideas or wisdom; we just have to lean on the Lord and His leadings.

The Lord can save you a lot of work, a lot of trouble, and a lot of time if you'll just remember to pray before you start a job. Whatever you have to do, pray about it. The Lord is always right there with you. He says, "I'll never leave thee nor forsake thee" (Hebrews 13:5). He's always there. So it's never God who's not there; it's us who are sometimes not always there, when we run off someplace else and leave Him behind when we forget to pray.

When we don't pray for His help, it's usually either because we just plain forget--and it's very negligent to forget to pray--or we're not willing to admit that we don't know the answer and that we have to ask Him for it. Either way, it's a mistake. When you don't pray and get in tune and ask the Lord to lead you and help you to do the right things, you can sure make mistakes and blow-its and really make a mess of things and can sure get off the track.

Some of the biggest mistakes that Christians ever make are through following their natural reasoning and common sense, when the Lord had something entirely different in mind, contrary to natural expectation, which could only be revealed by His Spirit. Many is the time in the Bible when men made decisions on their own by their own natural reasoning, and it turned out to be exactly the wrong decision because they hadn't sought the Lord or been led of the Spirit.

It's important to remember that you cannot possibly solve the multitude of problems that you will encounter in your own wisdom, your own strength, your own mind, your own understanding, your own trying to put two and two together. Jesus said, "Without Me, ye can do nothing" (John 15:5).

The most important thing in our lives is Jesus and to stay close to Him, to let Him lead and guide us. He's the one who has got to lead us because only He can! Without Him, we don't know where we are going or how to get there. But He knows exactly where and how, and all we have to do is just sit in the back seat and let Him drive. He knows where to go and the best way to get there.

He's promised that if you acknowledge Him, He will direct your paths. He says, "You shall hear a voice behind you, saying, This is the way, walk ye in it" (Isaiah 30:21). So ask the Lord about everything before you do it. Make sure it's what He wants you to do. Seek Him about everything--every problem, every decision--and He will never fail you or let you down!

Desperate prayer power

The Lord wants us to be happy, and thanks to Him, we usually are. But there should be times when you really seek the Lord for a needed change and pray desperately, pouring out your heart to the Lord. He says, "Ye shall seek Me, and find Me, when ye shall search for Me with all your heart" (Jeremiah 29:13). All our little prayers are sincere and we mean them, but we also need to get desperate in prayer about any serious situations that arise. There are times when we really need to get down to business with the Lord about problems.

A lot of people have sort of a lazy attitude and seem to think that the Lord will just do it all no matter what. But the truth of the matter is that a lot depends on us. Many times what God does depends on your will and your actions and what you want and how you pray. You're not supposed to just stand there and let God and the Devil fight it out!

Although God can do anything, He has committed Himself to work through you, and your prayers can do mighty things. Of course God's overall plan has never changed, His overall will has never changed, but in certain details you can bring about change through prayer. Otherwise, if prayer can't change anything, you might as well forget it! If you're in His Spirit, in His will, desiring only those things which glorify Him, delighting your heart only in Him, you can ask Him for the desires of your heart, because all you want is what He wants and what is for His glory.

I've never really put myself out on a limb and asked God to do a certain thing, but that He did something. It wasn't always the thing that I was asking for--usually it was--but He did something. He showed me the answer or answered somehow. When you cry unto Him with a whole heart, He promises, "I will answer thee" (Jeremiah 29:13, 33:3).

So next time you really need His help and are on the spot, call on the Lord and His power. Jesus never fails! He always answers when we stir ourselves to call upon Him with a whole heart.

More prayer principles

For a good prayer life, one of the main things you need to know is God's Word. Faith grows by faithful study of His Word. "Faith cometh by hearing the Word of God" (Romans 10:17). Even though God can answer anyway, if you're going to have real desperate prayer, you'll find that if you have a devotional, inspirational reading of the Word first, it will inspire you and give you more faith for your prayers.

God has made promises in His Word, and when you pray, you should bring those promises with you to remind Him. When you remind God of His Word, it shows you have faith in it. And it's a positive declaration of your faith and your knowledge of the Word which pleases Him. For "without faith it is impossible to please Him" (Hebrews 11:6).

"Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these (His promises) ye might be partakers of the divine nature" (2 Peter 1:4). You have to quote the terms of the Contract (the Bible) to the Contract Maker (God), and hold Him to it. He is bound by His Word. So remind Him of it, cling to His promises, memorize and quote them, and never doubt for a moment that God is going to answer--and He will!

But always remember His conditions, His terms of the contract: faith and obedience! Faith and obedience come first, then God answers prayer. If we are obeying the Lord and are faithful and trusting and believing, then God's got to bless and answer. Of course, sometimes God likes to test our faith. He likes to see how much we really believe, and often He will not give us answers until we obey what He's already told us or shown us.

It's helpful to remember that God's delays are not necessarily denials, and that sometimes we just have to have faith and wait for Him to answer, which usually results in "the trying of our faith, which worketh patience" (James 1:3). Learning patience seems to be one of God's most frequent lessons, yet one of our own rarest virtues, as it really tests our faith and drives us to the Lord and His Word.

Another important prayer principle is to be specific with the Lord. We need to ask for and expect specific answers when we pray. Being specific is a sign of your faith. A lot of times people pray generally because they don't expect to be answered anyhow. Whereas if you are specific when you pray, you're showing your faith that you expect to get that specific answer. And you don't expect to be disappointed. You really expect it or you wouldn't be so specific.

Remember, God takes you exactly at your word! I remember a preacher I knew once who said, "Lord, give me a car. I need a car. I'm desperate for a car, Lord--any old car!" And that's exactly what he got, a real junker! He said, "Next time I prayed specifically for a good car and got it." So be careful what you ask the Lord to do, because He'll take you literally. He'll give you what you ask for, and certainly what you have the faith for.

Watch out about some of the things that you insist on the Lord giving you: He sometimes even lets people have things that aren't good for them to teach them a lesson. He said of the children of Israel that "He gave them their request, but sent leanness to their souls" (Psalm 106:15). Watch out that what you're seeking is for His glory and within His will.

If you've read our lesson on God's precious Holy Spirit, "The Spirit of Love," then you know what a powerful effect the Holy Spirit can have on your prayer life, as once you are filled with the Spirit, you can pray in the Spirit and your prayers have more effect because you're praying by the Spirit. "Likewise the Spirit helpeth our infirmities: for we know not what we should pray for as we ought; but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered" (Romans 8:26). You can speak in tongues, letting the Spirit pray through you.

Once you've prayed about something and have committed it to the Lord, you just need to have faith. "Whatsoever things ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them" (Mark 11:24). Faith is not surprised at the answer to prayer; faith believes it. But the word "believe" as it's used today is hardly strong enough. Faith expects it to happen. So once you've prayed about something and committed it to the Lord, from then on it's God's problem. You don't need to worry about it. Just trust the Lord and praise Him and thank Him for hearing and answering your prayer--even if you don't see the answer right away.

In fact, you should not only end your prayers with praise and thanksgiving, but you should also begin your requests that way. His Word says that "in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God" (Philippians 4:6). King David said that we should "enter into His gates with thanksgiving, and into His courts with praise" (Psalm 100:4). It's like coming before the King and salaaming, giving Him due reverence and honor.

Even if you're tired or discouraged or don't feel like praising Him, you should go ahead and praise Him anyway, simply because He said to and you know that it pleases Him. It's a little bit like priming an old pump: you pour a little in, but you get a lot out. When you go ahead by faith, praising the Lord, priming the pump and getting started, pretty soon you'll feel happy in the Lord and really glad you praised Him, because He'll pour out His Spirit on you and He'll bless you for it.

Even when you feel a little down in the dumps or discouraged, look up and count your blessings. Thank God for all your blessings and get your eyes on the Lord and on the good things. (See Philippians 4:8.) Praise the Lord! Start your prayers by lifting your heart unto Him in praise! "By Him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to His name" (Hebrews 13:15).

Also remember: "One can chase a thousand, and two can put ten thousand to flight" (Deuteronomy 32:30). It helps greatly to have someone else pray with you sometimes, especially during times of trial. "Where two or three are gathered together in My name, there am I in the midst of them" (Matthew 18:20). And, "If two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of My Father which is in heaven" (Matthew 18:19).

There is great power in united prayer together! So never be ashamed to ask for help or prayer from someone else when you need it. "Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed" (James 5:16).

One last, but certainly not least, final reminder is about praying in the name of Jesus: All through the New Testament the Lord tells us how important it is to pray in the name of Jesus, to ask things in the name of Jesus, to use the name of Jesus and its power in prayer. Jesus is the one we have to approach God through. "For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus" (1 Timothy 2:5). People need to realize the power of the name of Jesus! For without that name, there is no power. Jesus said, "If ye shall ask any thing in My name, I will do it" (John 14:14).

Do you know Jesus? If not, ask Him into your heart right now--and Jesus will come in. Then you can learn to really know Him personally, intimately, as you learn to fellowship and communicate with Him through prayer.

We are all in a holy war together. We are fighting together for our faith, truth, and freedom! We are determined that the poor of the world shall be fed, clothed, housed, and be enabled to labor in freedom, peace, health and happiness to obtain their needs. We have pledged ourselves to lay down our lives in love for our brothers and sisters around the world. We have dedicated our all that all may be free to live lives of happiness together in cooperation.

Freedom from want, freedom from bondage, freedom from pain, freedom from evil and freedom from fear--these are our united goals. Mankind cannot be happy when hungry much of the time, enslaved by oppression, tyranny, and exploitation, robbed by the rich, suffering the pains and pangs of hunger, malnutrition, disease, ill health, overwork, evil abuse, the tortures of war and constant conflict, and nightmares of perpetual fearful insecurity.

We believe that all of these evils are caused by men's lack of love for God and each other, and their defiance of His laws of love and faith and peace and harmony with Him, each other, and His whole creation, which are the basic beliefs of true faith and every true believer in God and His love and His concern for His creations.

But we must not only know what we are fighting for and against, but also how we must fight. This is not a war of weapons and armies and bodies of men. This is not a war between man and man, nation and nation, race and race, rich and poor, socialism and capitalism, political and economic systems, societies and cultures, religions and faiths. This is not a war of hate and bitterness, killing and slaughter, revenge and vindictiveness, torture, dying and death.

This is not a war for the bodies and possessions and lands and pride of man. Such carnal wars of man have seldom ever settled anything or solved the basic problems of mankind. They have usually only resulted in more suffering, more agony, more pain, more hunger, more slavery, more bitterness, more vengeance, more fighting, more torture, more privation, more destruction, more waste, more misery, more poverty, and more death.

Ours is a war of the spirit in faith and love to win the minds and hearts and spirits and save the souls as well as the bodies of men. Ours is a war to free men from the evils of the spirit and mind and heart of man which cause them to be selfish and unloving and vicious and cruel and unkind to each other, man's inhumanity to man because of his lack of understanding of how to be happy due to his lack of knowledge of the love and faith and power of God and loving laws of God designed for our eternal happiness.

Ours is a war to free men's minds and hearts and spirits from the bondage of evil and the soul-slavery of the Devil which bring all these miseries upon us. We are in a war of the worlds--a war between good and evil, God and the Devil, goodness and wickedness, flesh and spirit, angels and devils, love and hate, life and death, joy and misery. Ours is a war of the universe between the good spirits of heaven and the evil spirits of hell contending for our souls as well as our bodies, not only on this earth but also in the spirit world.

Therefore we must fight the much greater warfare of the spirit with the far more powerful weapons of faith, love, compassion, and words and deeds of kindness. We must free men from fear with faith. We must free them from hatred with love. We must free them from sorrow with joy. We must free them from war with peace. We must free them from poverty with plenty, and we must free them from death with eternal heavenly happiness.

The pen is mightier than the sword. Ours is a war of words and ideas to thrill men's minds with faith and hope, and fill their hearts with love and peace and joy to set their spirits free, as well as acts of love and deeds of kindness to free their bodies from pain. We must therefore wage a war of words against the ideas of evil, a war of faith against fear, a war of hope against doubt. We must inspire men's spirits to believe in God and His love and His plan for the glorious future of man in the kingdom of God on earth run by the righteous, in which there shall soon be no more sorrow nor crying nor pain nor death, but all shall be light and health and happiness and peace and plenty for everyone.

We must teach them the loving, life-giving words of God Himself through His holy prophets in His holy book, the Bible, that they might have His life and love and happiness forever. Mighty empires of the sword have come and gone, but His words of love and life go on forever and continue to give joy and peace and love and life and hope to billions for generations. The Alexanders and Caesars and Genghis Khans and Napoleons and Hitlers have come and gone, but the words and ideas and religions of the philosophers and the prophets of God live on forever.

They know no boundaries, no nation, no race nor empire, and are not bound by time or space, nor limited by man nor war nor force of arms, but embrace all mankind and unite their minds and hearts and spirits in faith and love of God and each other for the good of all. The philosophers, teachers, prophets, and men of God seldom ruled empires, but they won worlds of men with their words, faith, and ideas which captured hearts, minds, and spirits and set them forever free. The followers of God are numbered in billions for millenniums, and God's eternal kingdom of His words of life and love has conquered worlds of men's eternal spirits, far greater, longer lasting, and happier than man's mere worldly empires of the sword.

We cannot force men to be good; we cannot legislate righteousness. We must persuade their minds, win their hearts, inspire their spirits, and save their souls so that they will willingly want to do good and not to do evil. You cannot change the world of man without changing his mind, and you cannot change his mind unless you change his heart, and you cannot change his heart without the inspiration of God's Spirit to save his soul and not only his body.

We must work to save all of man, not merely his body and his environment. He will never be happy with a heavy heart, a troubled mind, a discouraged spirit, and an unsaved soul. We must work to save the whole man, not just part of him. We must work to save the whole world, not just part of it. We must work to save them for eternity, not just for this present time.

Only the power and life and light and love and words of God can do this. We must get His words to all men by every means available throughout the earth. We must convey His ideas, hopes, faith, love and plans for His creations to the eyes and minds and thoughts of all men everywhere, that all hearts may be changed and all spirits inspired and all souls be saved.

We must have a world vision of universal salvation of all mankind, not just our own. We must not confine ourselves to the mere matters of the moment and the cares of this life and environment only, or those of only one people or one nation or one race or one culture or one ideology or one political view or one economic system of East or West or North or South.

The salvation of man must be for all if it is for any and must include everyone if all are to be happy. Though ninety-and-nine were in the fold, the Good Shepherd was not content until the last lost one was found and saved and rescued (Luke 15:4). Their number was not complete and they could not have been completely happy as long as there was still one unhappy one astray. We must search and find them all, all of His lost sheep, with His loving words of life and faith and duty to both God and man, and we must bring them all into His fold that they may be of one fold with one Shepherd forever. Hallelujah!

We must tell all, even though all will not listen nor respond nor be saved. We owe the message of God and His life of love to every man, but especially to them that will believe and receive it.

If God be for us, no man can stand against us, however great their power or numbers. "Have faith in God" (Mark 11:22). "If God be for us, who can be against us?" (Romans 8:31). If you do good, who is he that will stop you (1 Peter 3:13)? None can withstand the power of God nor His forces of heaven if He is on your side and you are on His, doing that which is right.

We are in a fight to the finish, and the victory is ours, praise be to God! We may lose a few battles, but we're winning the war and the world will soon be won for God and His kingdom. Never give up. Be not discouraged, but be of good faith and of good cheer, for if God is with you, you cannot fail. "If God be for us, who can be against us?" (Romans 8:31). We are bound to win, for God is with us, and we fight a holy, right, and just war of faith and love for God and others, and love never fails, for God is love (1 Corinthians 13:8; 1 John 4:8).

Heaven and earth shall pass away, but His words shall never pass away (Mark 13:31). They are settled forever in heaven (Psalm 119:89), and none can deny nor defy them forever. So use them and spread them and His love through every means at your command to give people light and hope and life and love and peace and heavenly happiness forever.

You are no fool to give a life you cannot keep for a love you will never lose.

From pretty young shop girls and waitresses and secretaries to elderly widows and rich old dowagers; from handsome young clerks, bookkeepers, technicians, white collar workers and engineers to wealthy businessmen, retired widowers, single shopkeepers, and even bachelor farmers, we found them all the same:

Hungry, lonely, empty, unhappy, dissatisfied, and spiritually destitute--all longing for love of all kinds, but especially for a love they had never known before, true love, sincere love, genuine love, the truly great love of their life, the love of all loves, of the Lover of all lovers, who alone can satisfy that deepest yearning of every human soul for total love and complete understanding.

Some were finding momentary relief in a night of affectionate dancing closely together in each other's arms with an occasional tender caress and gentle kiss. Others carried it further--from the floor to the bed afterward each night in a casual sexual relationship which temporarily satisfied their bodies but left leanness in their souls, wondering why no one and no love ever truly satisfied or brought that lasting happiness of which they dreamed and is so deceptively and romantically portrayed by the media and tellers of tales.

Why could they never find this happiness for themselves? Why did even a prolonged relationship still leave them feeling empty, incomplete, and unfulfilled? Even those with seemingly naturally well-rounded full lives of plenty, security, families, spouses, and children were still feeling so dissatisfied and unhappy and discontented that under the cover of darkness and the dimly lit ballrooms of the big city they clandestinely sought new relationships outside the usual circle of their family and friends, always seeking something new.

As God's Word says, "The people seek a new thing" (Acts 17:21). But they find nothing that ever satisfies, no love that ever lasts, no happiness that is forever theirs.

They are miserable, brokenhearted, wounded, bound, captives of their own passions and prisoners of their own shattered hopes, desires, and limited human frailties. For although the body is of this earth and is satisfied with the things of this earth, the human spirit--that intangible personality of the real you that dwells in that body--can never be completely satisfied with anything but utter union with the great and loving Spirit that created it.

He's the power and life of the universe that some people call God but that the Bible itself calls love, for "God is love" (1 John 4:8), the very spirit of love itself--true love, everlasting love, real love, genuine love that never ends from a lover who never leaves, the lover of all lovers, God Himself.

He's pictured in His Son Christ Jesus, a man who loved everybody, even the poorest and the worst of all, even His self-righteous, hypocritical religious enemies. He was a man who went about all His life trying to do good and help others, even the drunks and the harlots, the publicans and the sinners, and sometimes even the Scribes and the Pharisees, who finally crucified Him for His dangerous doctrine of love. But His death brings life, forgiveness, and eternal joy to those who love Him in return.

He is the lover of all lovers, who came for love and lived in love, and died for love that we might live and love forever! He even loves the unlovely and the least likely to be lovable, who blossom into beauty at His loving touch. But He has no hands but your hands and He has no lips but yours and He has no eyes but your eyes, for you are His body, His bride for whom He died that you might live and love others as He did, your life given for them as His was for you, to even die for them as He did for you!

"For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but have everlasting life. For God sent not His Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved" (John 3:16-17).

Are you willing to be sent like Jesus into the deepest and darkest places of this earth amongst the lowest of the low, not to condemn them but to love them into His kingdom of love--God's kingdom, God's love? Then, "Because He laid down His life for us, we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren" (1 John 3:16).

We found out we could not withhold bread from the hungry--the bread of life, Christ Jesus, nor drink from the thirsty--the water of His Word, which satisfies the most ultimate longings of the human soul.

We sometimes passed through the agonies of Gethsemane, but once having begun the life of love, we found there was no stopping place, no limit, and no end. We had to give and to give and to give again until it hurt. It hurt our pride, crucified our flesh, killed our selfishness, and made us "of no reputation" like Jesus Himself (Philippians 2:7). They called Him a devil, a winebibber, a glutton, a friend of publicans and sinners, drunks and harlots, but He kept on giving and giving and giving again until the day He died for love, to give us His eternal love and life and happiness for ever after.

We soon found there was no stopping place, no limit to which God would not go to save a poor lost soul with His infinite love and unlimited mercy! As the apostle James so clearly states: "If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food and one of you say unto them, 'Depart in peace! Be ye warmed and filled!'--Notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body--what doth it profit? "Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead" (James 2:15-17). In other words, if in the faith of God you really love them, they cannot understand it or believe it unless you really show them by some visible tangible work or action that puts your words into action and puts your faith into effect and makes it fact and not fiction, a sample, not just a sermon.

Are you willing to give that much to bring them eternal joy and happiness through the salvation of their immortal spirit by the power of the love of the God of love Himself?

Remember, love never fails (1 Corinthians 13:8). All the confession sessions in the world are not going to do it. All the introspection, analyzing, and agonizing are merely works of the flesh, which will have to be repeated next week. Battles never cease. "Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all" (Psalm 34:19).

Only God can do it. Our salvation is only by grace, never by works, confession sessions, or battling in the flesh with our sins. If God can't do it, nobody can. And if you're trying to attain some state of sinless perfection through some false doctrine of eradication, such as the holiness people strive to have, you're doomed to disappointment. You'll never make it.

Not even Paul counted himself to have attained (Philippians 3:12). He kept making mistakes for the rest of his life, and pulled the classic boner of all time by trying to appease the system church, which permanently cost him his freedom--and his head. (See Acts 21.) Nevertheless, he was a good apostle, a faithful evangelist, and did a tremendous job in spite of all of his shortcomings, failures, sins, mistakes, and blunders.

If you think the time's coming when you'll no longer have to fight self, sin, and the "old man," you're mistaken. I'm still at it. How about you? That's why we have so many victories: we have so many battles, and so much to fight against--mostly our own selves.

God knows, we should be growing, and making some progress, and passing a few tests, and surviving a few trials and having a few triumphs and testimonies. But if you think you're going to make sinless saints, overnight wonders, out of new converts, I'm afraid you have another think coming.

I have a hard time bawling out other people for the same things I'm guilty of myself, and of which most of us are guilty, even worse. So about all I can do is confess what a hell of a mess I made along the same line, weep a little, cry a little, sympathize a little, and take each other in each other's arms, forgive each other, and try again.

"For if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father in heaven forgive you your trespasses" (Matthew 6:15). And you've got plenty of them, let's face it--only bigger and even worse, because of the size of your job. "Seek not therefore to be teachers, for unto you is the greater condemnation" (James 3:1).

I think all of you are going to find out sooner or later that the "thorn in the flesh" God is going to use to keep you humble, even as He did with the great apostle Paul, is probably going to be some besetting sin that you'll have to fight for the rest of your life, which will take a lot of the grace of God to keep overcoming and keep battling (2 Corinthians 12:7-9).

This is what helps keep us in shape. There's no triumph without a trial, no testimony without a test, no victory without a battle, so keep fighting! You're bound to win sometimes, and when you lose, it'll help keep you humble, and help others to know you're only human, and give God all the glory.

I do not believe in the holiness doctrine of eradication, nor in the Baptist doctrine of suppression, but rather in the good old Bible doctrine of habitation, "Christ in you, the hope of glory" (Colossians 1:27; Ephesians 2:22).

"Without Me ye can do nothing" (John 15:5). Even Jesus said of Himself, "I can do nothing, but what the Father showeth Me" (John 5:19-20). And it was later said of Him, "Even the Son learned obedience through the things which He suffered" (Hebrews 5:8). The so-called holiness doctrine can often be a pride trip of self-righteous, sanctimonious, holier-than-thou hypocrisy.

You might as well face it: You can't get the victory. It's impossible for you to get the victory. Only Christ can. Let go and let God! You can't do it yourself. "Not of works, lest any man should boast" (Ephesians 2:9). "For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God" (Ephesians 2:8). Only God can give it. You can't earn it, work for it, work it up, pray it down, pray it through, and become so wholly sanctified that you're some kind of sinless saint.

You haven't got anybody's righteousness except Christ's, and He's the only one that can give it to you. Your own righteousness stinks! It's "filthy rags" (Isaiah 64:6). So quit trying. Let God do it. Let the light in, and the darkness will flee of itself.

Get so full of the Spirit and the Word, you don't have time to worry about yourself or how bad you are. Of course you're bad! So are all the rest of us. Only Jesus is good. So let's talk about Jesus, amen? I gave up on myself a long time ago--like Paul did in Romans 7:17-25: "O wretched man that I am! Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord." Hallelujah. He's the only one who can do it. All the confession sessions in the world aren't going to do it.

You're glorifying self when you talk about your faults, because you're talking about yourself instead of Jesus. I just can't do the subject justice! As the man who was noted for his cursing said when they found him sitting silently looking at his overturned load of apples, "I just can't do the subject justice."

You just can't possibly tell people how bad you are, so quit trying. Let's talk about Jesus. And let's quit judging people so severely and so harshly for little blunders of the mind, rather than the heart. Let's forgive one another, as God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven us (Ephesians 4:32).

You need to apply to yourself what Jesus said to the self-righteous, hypocritical religious leaders of His day, "You need to learn what it meaneth: 'I will have mercy and not sacrifice'" (Matthew 9:13). You need to learn what that means. For God's sake, let's remember that only Jesus can do it, and quit trying to legislate righteousness. It's a gift of God. Let God do it. Love never fails. Jesus never fails.

What everybody needs is love!

My mother often used to say, "The Lord had to break my back in order to break my will." She spent five long years in bed before she finally got the point and yielded her life to the Lord. But look how the Lord was able to mightily use her once she submitted to the breaking, repented of her sins, and completely turned her life over to Him. She had a tremendously fruitful life and ministry in which countless souls were saved and multitudes of broken bodies and broken hearts were healed, thank You, Jesus!

The trouble with most of us is that we want to be used just as we are; we don't want to be broken. But God only uses broken people; no others will do. Others are too proud and self-confident in their talents and natural abilities, and would take the glory to themselves if God were to use them. This is why He chooses and uses the weak things, the foolish things, the despised things, "that no flesh should glory in His presence" (1 Corinthians 1:25-29).

The list is almost endless of all the men in the Bible whom God had to humble before He could use them, of all the leaders God had to bring down to the depths before they could stand to be exalted--lest they would have taken credit to themselves and not given God the glory.

Look at Joseph. Of Jacob's 12 sons, he was his father's favorite. His elder brothers finally became so jealous of him that they nearly killed him, threw him into a pit, and then sold him into slavery. But that's what the Lord used to humble him. Joseph had to be made a slave and a prisoner and be condemned as a criminal before God was able to exalt him to become the savior of His people (Genesis 37, 39-41).

And look at Moses. For 40 years he was groomed in the very courts of Pharaoh, and rose to become the second-most powerful man in all of the mighty world empire of ancient Egypt. The Bible says he was "educated in all the wisdom of the Egyptians" (Acts 7:22), but God could not yet use him to lead His people to freedom, for he was full of the ways of the world and not the ways of God. Moses had to be broken first. So God allowed him to become a fugitive from Pharaoh, and he had to spend 40 years in the wilderness doing nothing but tending sheep, until finally he was broken and humble enough for God to use him for the great task He had designed him for (Exodus 2, 3).

Consider King David, the greatest king that Israel ever had: He fell in love with Bathsheba, purposely had her husband, Uriah, killed in battle, and then tried to lie and cover up the entire crime. God had to completely expose him, humble him, and severely judge him. And he was soon driven from the throne by his own traitorous son, Absalom (2 Samuel 11, 12, 15).

But was David's fall really a fall downward or a fall upward? God's way up is sometimes down--usually, in fact. Just the opposite of what we think! David was humbled, and the whole kingdom was humbled, and they were all reminded that it was only the Lord who made them great. From that squeezing and twisting of David's life came forth the sweet honey of the Psalms, and the fragrance of his praises to the Lord for His mercy--a lesson that's been an encouragement to other great sinners like me and you ever since.

The great, brave and mighty prophet Elijah was able to call down fire from heaven to confound the false prophets of Baal and to prove that he was right (1 Kings 18). But after slaying hundreds of false prophets, he panicked and ran away from one little woman, the wicked Queen Jezebel. Hiding out in the wilderness, he became so discouraged that he wished that he might die. But there in his time of desperation, this prophet of fire and thunder became a meek little man who learned to listen to the still, small voice of God. He became a much better, humbler instrument in the hands of the Lord--a prophet who fearlessly returned to face not only the queen, but the king and all of their soldiers (1 Kings 19 and 21).

Look at the apostle Peter. He was so proud and self-confident that he swore to Jesus, "Though all others forsake You, I am ready to go with You both to prison and to death" (John 13:37; Luke 22:33). But just a few hours later, when Jesus was seized by the temple guards and hauled before the Jews' religious court, some people outside the building recognized Peter and pointed him out as one of Jesus' followers. Peter vehemently denied that he even knew Him, cursing and swearing that he had no idea what they were talking about (Mark 14:66-71).

As he was denying the Lord the third time, Jesus, who was being led by His captors to another part of the building, turned and gazed upon Peter, and Peter suddenly remembered how he had sworn that he would never deny Him. The Bible tells us that Peter then "went out and wept bitterly" (Luke 22:62). Was this the end of Peter's service for the Lord? No! It was shortly after this humiliating defeat, this great failure, this breaking of his pride, that the Lord anointed and raised up Peter to become the leader of the early church.

And consider the great apostle Paul: He had been a prominent Jewish leader, the rabbi Saul, and had personally taken it upon himself to put an end to the fast-growing sect of the followers of Jesus of Nazareth. Journeying by horseback to Damascus, where he intended to capture, imprison, and execute as many Christians as he could find, God had to literally knock him off his horse and blind him with the brilliant light of His presence. Trembling, helpless, and blind, the once proud rabbi had to be led by the hand into the city, where he was so astonished that he was unable to eat or drink for three full days. A disciple of the Lord then came to give him God's message and pray for his eyes, and Saul was converted and became the apostle Paul. God had to humble and break him first, and make him a new man before He was able to use him (Acts 9).

In fact, this is the story of every one of us who is of any real use to the Lord's work. To get us to be what He wants us to be usually requires many breakings, humblings, and meltings, remolding, reshaping, and remaking into a better vessel--better than we were, better than we thought we were, and much more yielded and useful for His kingdom.

But the Lord won't force it. The breaking depends upon you and your yieldedness and willingness to be made willing. Such tests, trials, and tribulations will either soften and melt you, or harden and embitter you. Suffering makes you either bitter or better, one or the other. So watch out that you don't get hardened, bitter, and resentful in your heart against God when you're going through it. His Word says, "Look diligently, lest any man fail the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up and trouble you, and through it, many be defiled" (Hebrews 12:15).

If you let trials humble you and melt you, you'll be a whole lot happier, because you'll be drawn a whole lot closer to the Lord. But if you allow yourself to be "hardened through the deceitfulness of sin" (Hebrews 3:13), you'll wind up like the guy in that horrible poem, "Invictus": "I am the captain of my soul. I am the master of my fate. My head is bloody but unbowed." Even though he was bruised, buffeted, and bloodied, he still insisted on being his own boss and would not yield or "bow" to the Lord.

Some people, no matter how much God does, even if He beats them over the head, they'll still not get the point and bow their head to Him. They'll still not call out to the Lord and confess that He's their captain or their master. Though their head is bloody, it remains unbowed. What a hell of a picture of the unyielding sinner in his rebellious defiance of God. How much better the beautiful picture of the true saint, the yielded sinner, on his knees saying, "Lord, please be merciful to me a sinner" (Luke 18:13).

If you harden your heart against the Lord's dealings with you, if you resist the Holy Spirit and harden your heart against God's love and against His truth, truth resisted will lose its power over your soul. Every time you resist the truth, you're hardening your spirit against the Lord. It's like when you have a little tender spot on your foot where your shoe has been rubbing. At first it's very, very sensitive, really sore; it hurts. But if it keeps on rubbing and keeps on rubbing, pretty soon you build a big callus, as the skin gets thicker and tougher and hardened.

Hardening your heart is not the solution. He says, "Harden not your hearts" (Hebrews 3:15). Rather, "Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and He shall sustain thee. Seek ye the Lord while He may be found; call ye upon Him while He is near. The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite (broken, repentant) spirit" (Psalm 55:22, 34:18; Isaiah 55:6).

Whatever God does, He always does it in love. "The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is His mercy toward them that fear Him. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear Him. For He knoweth our frame; He remembereth that we are dust" (Psalm 103:8-14).

The Lord loves you and is even "touched with the feeling of your infirmities" (Hebrews 4:15). But He knows that He will never be able to fully use you as much as He would like to unless you are humbled and broken up a bit. When He can get you out of the way, then He has a chance. When you become nothing but a tool and a channel--nothing but a little diamond of dust--then He can mightily use you. So that Jesus can live and think and move in you.

He makes us through breaking us. For unless God is able to break your heart and your spirit, you'll never be really useful to the Lord. And you'll never know how to love the poor lost world and sympathize with and reach others with His love. If He can just break and melt your heart, then He'll woo and win it, warm and melt it, and make it bright and happy and burning with His love. So you can share that love with others. As Aaron used to sing:

God says, yield to Me, and I will break your heart.
Am I not He that hath set you apart?
That's why I gave on Pentecost day,
My Spirit to save and witness alway.
God says, Yield to Me, and I will break your heart.
You've got a job to do.
Don't quit till you're all through.
God really loves the lost, and cries a lot about it.
Don't fret about the cost.
He gave His Son, let's shout it.
He gave His Son, let's shout it.
A Man of sorrows and acquainted with grief.
He's still the same today, in Him is your relief.
You can feel His broken heart,
He'll live through you today,
A heart that's broken for lost souls.
Just let Him have His way.
Yield to Jesus, and He will break your heart.
Such great love You've given us, such great mercy You've shown us, how lovingly You deal with us. Perhaps sometimes it doesn't seem loving to us, and we chafe against it and we think it's severe and harsh, but even then, Your dealings with us are loving, Lord. Because if that's the only way that You can get through to us, and if that's the only way You can show us, You love us enough to do it, even though You know it hurts.

Help us to submit, to yield, to let You have Your way, no matter how hard it seems, no matter how much it hurts. Help us to be willing, Lord, willing to go through these breakings so we can be remade by You. Help us to yield, to be humbled and broken, to be nothing, so that You can work and live in us, so that Your glory can be seen in us, in Jesus' name.

"My grace is sufficient" (2 Corinthians 12:9).

Yielding to the Lord may not always seem like an easy thing to do, to be able to sincerely pray in each time of testing, "Not my will, but Thy will be done." But remember, Jesus promised that He would make His will easy. He said, "Come unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take My yoke upon you, and learn of Me; for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For My yoke is easy, and My burden is light" (Matthew 11:28-30).

He promises that His yoke will never be too hard, nor will His burden be too heavy. So if you take it from the Lord, and do His will, it's not going to be too hard or too heavy. Just believe it by faith because Jesus said so--even when it seems like it is too hard and too heavy.

God has promised that He will never allow a load on your shoulders that's more than you're able to carry. He says, "There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man: For God is faithful, who will not suffer (allow) you to be tempted above that ye are able; but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it" (1 Corinthians 10:13).

He'll never give you anything more than you're able to bear. So if you ever feel like the tests, trials, and battles are more than you can bear and you just can't make it, they're more difficult than you have strength for, they're greater than you are, remember, the Lord is greater than they are. So take them to Him. Draw close to Jesus and get desperate with Him and lean on Him.

Give me a task too big,
Too hard for human hands;
Then shall I come at length
To lean on Thee;
And leaning find my strength.--W. H. Fowler
When the burden and the load seems too heavy for you, remember the story of the little boy who was trying very hard to lift a heavy piece of furniture. His father came into the room, and noting his son's struggle with it, asked him, "Are you using all your strength?" "Yes, of course I am," the boy impatiently exclaimed. "Oh, no, you're not," the father answered. "You haven't asked me to help you!"

When you're weak, then His strength can come in--if you'll lean on Him. He says, "My grace is sufficient for thee; for My strength is made perfect in your weakness" (2 Corinthians 12:9). Many times when you are weakest in the flesh, you are strongest in the spirit because you just have to completely throw yourself on the Lord. You don't know how you're going to make it, but He can make it for you. God knows you'll never make it on your own. But if you'll just yield and surrender to Him, then He will make it through you. "For it is God which worketh in us, both to will and to do of His good pleasure" (Philippians 2:13).

So, Lord, we just ask that Thy will be done in each of our lives, to get out of each life what You want, Lord, and to put into each life what You want, that we may do Your will to bring many, many more lives into Your kingdom for Your glory. You told us that You can only use broken people, so please break us as much as You have to so that we're only dust and we're nothing, and then You can remold us and use us in the way that You best see fit.

Please keep us close to You and Your will, submitting to You in every area, in Jesus' name, amen.

Are you letting the Lord lead your life? Are you ready for anything? Anything God wants you to do? You are if you're willing, if you sincerely want to please and follow Jesus and be what He wants you to be.

Only to be what He wants me to be,
Every moment of every day!
Yielded completely to Jesus the Lord,
Every step of life's pilgrim way.
Just to be clay in the Potter's hands,
Just to obey what His will commands.
Only to be what He wants me to be,
Every moment of every day.

Matthew 5--Great difference in mountain and multitude. Mountain is the opposite of multitude. Jesus left the multitude behind. The mountain peaks are never crowded. I climbed many mountains, and I was almost always alone. Why?

It's hard work.
Not very many people desire to climb mountains.
It's lonesome.
You have to forsake all to do it.
It's apt to cost you your life.
Lots of scratches and bumps.
Long after the valley was in darkness, I could still see the sun. There is more light on the mountain. The valley is almost always dark--full of people and things, but usually in darkness. The mountain is windy and cold, but thrilling. You really have to have the feeling that it's worth dying for. Any mountain--the mountain of this life, the mountain of accomplishment, the mountain of obstacles, of difficulty--if you're going to climb them, they have to be worth dying for, to brave wind and cold and storm, symbolic of adversities.

On the mount alone you feel so close to the Lord. The voice of His Spirit there is so loud, it's almost like it's thundering. The voice of the multitude is so loud in the valley, you can't hear the voice of God. The silence on the mountain peak is deafening. You get a real "high" on top of a mountain. It's a thrill. It's almost terrifying!

Of course, it's extremely dangerous. You're never so near the abyss as you are when you're on the brink. One little misstep will end you up right down at the bottom again. You'll hit bottom hard. Strange thing about mountain climbing--it's much easier to climb up than to go back down again. Once you're up, you may never get back--one of the prices you pay for climbing mountains. Most mountain climbers who were lost were lost in the descent, because when you are going up, you can see where you're going, but when you're going down, you can't see.

How many people who go back really see what they are getting into? They think they're going back to the easy way, but they never realize what they're getting into by going back--a terrible letdown. You have a peculiar feeling like you don't want to leave the mountain. No inspiration in it. There is a certain drive going up, almost a spiritual thing. You'll risk anything. But going down? No inspiration, no goal, no accomplishment. You're just sliding back down into the morass of humanity and the mire of the multitude.

Only pioneers climb mountains--people who want to do something that no one ever did before, who want to get above the multitude, beyond what has already been done and accomplished. Pioneers must have vision--vision to see what no one else can see; faith--faith to believe things no one else believes; initiative--initiative to be the first one to try it; courage--the guts to see it through!

On the mountain you are the first to see the sun rise and the last to see it set. You see the full circle of God's glorious creation. You see the world in its proper perspective, with range after range to be conquered and a world beyond the horizon of normal men. You see distant peaks yet to be climbed. You see distant valleys yet to be crossed. You see things that the men in the valleys can never see, can't even comprehend, because they can't see it. You can see the 360-degree circumference of the horizon. It's like seeing all of life from its beginning to its end and understanding. You feel like you're living in eternity, whereas down below they're living in time.

You get over here in this little multitude and this little make-believe of mammon and you can't see anything but time and creatures of time and things of time, which are soon to pass away. But you thrust your head above those around you in that multitude and you become a mountain in their midst; and they resent you and resist you and fight you, because they can't understand you and they don't want you. They don't even want to know there are mountains. They don't want their children to hear there are mountains. When you appear to be on a mountain while they are in the valley, they resent you, because they don't want it to be known that there is any place else to go. They don't even want their children to know there is anything else or any other place to go or a way to get there. They want to keep them shut in down in the valley in the mud and the mire.

Do you realize that since time immemorial, wars have been fought between the people who lived in the valleys and the people who lived on the mountains? There have always been wars between the mountain people and the valley people. The mountain people are always tougher, huskier, hardier, but fewer. But they always survived, because they had their mountains to flee to. The valley people could never follow because they weren't tough and husky enough to climb, so they would chase them up a little way and let them go. They didn't want to conquer mountains. They just wanted to get rid of the mountain people. The mountain people were thorns in their flesh and pricks in their side. They proved someone could live somewhere other than in the valley, something they said was impossible.

History is full of examples of mountain people conquering valley people, but seldom of the valley people conquering the mountain people. But the danger has always been that when the mountain people had conquered the valley people, they settled down in the valley. The danger is when you make peace with the valley, when it becomes safe for you to go down into the valley. The greatest danger is safety and security, because then you lose the wild freedom and liberty of the mountain.

The valley land is man's country; the high lands are God's country. Man dominates the valley; only God dominates the mountain, and the men living on the mountains know this. Men living in the valleys think they are God, because they dominate themselves. But those on the mountains live so close to the things that are frightening and terrible and dangerous, they have to live close to God. The men in the valleys have become so secure they don't need God, because they have forgotten there is any God.

It's a rough and rugged road, a hard and a heavy load, and the people you meet aren't always kind--on the way up. But they're even worse down in the valley, and in the valley they will do everything they can to discourage you from climbing the mountain.

There aren't many places to live on the mountain--little rugged shelters, lean-tos. Not much to eat, cold and windy, but it's a thrill even to die there. Better to die on the mountain than to live in the valley. Whoever read in the newspaper about the man who slipped and fell on the city street? But the man who dies on the mountain even in far-off Switzerland, you'll read about in the newspapers here. Because at least he dared to try. Beaten paths are for beaten men, but mountain peaks are for the mighty pioneers.

You take the mountain and you'll leave the multitudes behind, and then you'll know who the disciples are. Only Jesus' disciples came unto Him (Matthew 5:1). When He went up into the mountain, the only ones who had the priceless privilege of hearing the world's most famous sermon were the ones who left the multitudes and took the mountain--the ones who followed Jesus all the way.

I wonder how many tried to go along with them for a while and got left by the wayside huffing and puffing. I'm quite sure it weeded out all the people who were looking for the loaves and fishes and "What's in it for me?" because the price was too great. "What's the use of climbing this big mountain? Don't they know it's never been climbed before? Don't they know you can't do it? Why should we go up there and risk our necks even to see a miracle or to get another fish sandwich? No use wearying ourselves with this mountain. Let's sit down here and see if they ever make it back down again. Wait and see if it can be done first."

You never hear about the people who wait to see if it can be done. You only hear about the people who either made it or died trying. But when you make it, the mouth of God will be opened unto you. He'll speak to you face to face. He will teach you and reveal to you the greatest of His secrets.

The greatest laws ever given to man whereby most of the civilized world is still ruled were given to one man on a mountain--Moses. The greatest so-called sermon ever preached was given to a handful of mountain men by the greatest mountaineer of all, Jesus.--Who finally climbed His last mountain, mount Calvary, Golgotha, and died alone for the sins of the world. That was a mountain that only He could climb for you and me--but He made it.

So what do you hear on the mountain? You hear things that are going to echo around the world. What do you hear in the stillness? Whispers that are going to change the course of history. Eight people came down from one mountain--Noah and his family from the Ark on Mt. Ararat--and they were never the same, and the world was never the same. One man, Moses, came down from a mountain and a whole nation was never the same, and they changed the world. And Jesus and His disciples came down from this mountain and changed the world. They were never the same.

What changed them that changed the world? When they heard the voice of God teaching them things that were completely contrary to what was being said in the valley. In the valley they were saying, "Blessed are the Romans--the proud, haughty, and powerful. Look what they've done. They've conquered the whole world. It pays to be a Roman." But Jesus was saying on the mount, "Blessed are the poor in spirit (the humble), for theirs is the kingdom." (Matthew 5:3). Simple fishermen were listening to a carpenter tell them something that would make them greater rulers than the Caesars of Rome--rulers of a greater empire than Rome. "Blessed are the poor in spirit."--For theirs is the kingdom that is going to rule the universe!

"Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted" (Matthew 5:4). Blessed to mourn? More blessed to have problems and sorrows? Yes, because you will be comforted. "Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth" (Matthew 5:5). Those that don't fight back are going to win the greatest battle of all--that for the whole world. Those who are persecuted for their faith are the rulers of the next world, the world to come.

The poor in spirit are a mountain people. They that mourn dwell on the mountain. The meek are from the mountains. "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled" (Matthew 5:6). The people on the mountain hunger and thirst, and only God can satisfy them.

The merciful are from the mountain. "Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy" (Matthew 5:7).

"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God" (Matthew 5:8). There is no condemnation on the mountain. Melted snow is the purest water in the world, distilled water, straight from God. "Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool" (Isaiah 1:18). Pure in heart. There is no smog on the mountain. The air is pure. The water is pure. The people are pure in heart. They see God.

"Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God" (Matthew 5:9). Peacemakers with whom? How can you be at peace with the valley, when the valley refuses to be at peace with you? You cannot make peace with those who want war. Who then can you make peace with? Peace with God and peace with the peacemakers. Peace with those who want peace, as the angels sang, "Peace on earth toward men of good will" (Luke 2:14). How can you have peace with evil men and men of evil will? You cannot make peace with those who want war.

"Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness sake" (Matthew 5:10). They come down from the mountain and offer the peace of the mountain to those in the valley, and they are maligned and jailed and crucified. But they are blessed.

"For theirs is the kingdom of heaven." We end where we started. The poor in spirit are the persecuted, and both wind up with the kingdom of heaven. "Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely" (Matthew 5:11). But "rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven" (Matthew 5:12). Not here always. Of course, if you live in the continual heaven of His peace and joy, you get a lot of that reward right now, don't you? You're already in heaven in spirit. "The kingdom of heaven is within you," so great is that reward of heaven in your heart, and great is your reward in the heaven hereafter (Luke 17:21).

"So persecuted they the prophets which were before you" (Matthew 5:12). All my life I read that and took it to mean, "So persecuted they the prophets which were before you." What it really means is "So persecuted they the prophets which were before you"--those other prophets like you. You too are prophets. This is a part of your reward, because they persecuted them too. You have attained the ranks of prophets when you receive persecution for giving people God's Word and prophesying, and "great is your reward in heaven!"

Did you know what nations have stayed free longer than any others?--Switzerland in the top of the Alps, and Afghanistan and Nepal in the top of the Himalayas. Other civilizations have come and gone, and they are still here. One reason they are still free is that they don't have much anybody else wants. Nobody wants their mountains but them. "I'll take the mountain!" (Joshua 14:12).

Power and greatness were symbolized by mountains in the Scriptures, never valleys. The "mountain of the Lord's house" (Isaiah 2:2). God's house is a mountain. You are a mountain. He speaks of the kingdom of God as a mountain that becomes so great it fills the whole earth (Daniel 2:35). It speaks of Zion as a mountain. "Out of Zion shall go forth the word of the Lord" (Isaiah 2:3). The word of the Lord shall go out from the mountain of the Lord's house. The whole earth shall come and worship at the mountain of the Lord's house.

"The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures" (Psalm 23:1-2). Where have you pictured those pastures? I've always pictured them as mountain meadows with beautiful little crystal mountain pools. "He restoreth my soul … He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for His name's sake" (Psalm 23:3). What is His path like? A narrow and rugged mountain path. "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death" (Psalm 23:4). There's death in the valley. Life is on the mountain. Get out of the valley! "Flee as a bird to the mountain, ye who are weary of sin." (Psalm 11:1).

The instantaneous, miraculous, and supernatural change of mind, heart, and life which occurs by the power of God's Spirit when we receive His Son Jesus into our hearts is so drastic that God's Word likens it unto spiritual rebirth. The newborn child of God then enters for the first time into the whole new world of a whole new life in the incredible spiritual kingdom of God.

Such "rebirth" or "conversion" experiences have been a very common miracle of God throughout history. Jesus called it being born again of His Spirit, and Paul called it the new birth in which "old things are passed away and all things are become new," and "ye are become new creatures in Christ Jesus." The Bible also calls it "putting off the old man and putting on the new," and it is often such a remarkable transformation and actual personality change that God's Word likens it to the death and burial of the old and a resurrection of the new to an entirely new life and way of living (John 3:1-8; 2 Corinthians 5:17; Ephesians 4:22-24; Romans 6:3-11).

For "except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven" (Matthew 18:3). Therefore "ye must be born again" (John 3:7), in spirit: First, by believing the words of God; then, recognizing your own need of a Savior from your sins, by receiving the spirit of Jesus Christ Himself into your own heart personally in a definite individual decision, forever thereafter proclaiming Him as the Son of God and your Savior, as well as the Savior of all those who will believe and receive Him and His words.

His coming into your life not only renews and purifies and regenerates your spirit, but it also renews your mind, literally breaking old connections and reflexes, and gradually rebuilding it and rewiring it into a whole new computer system with an utterly different outlook on life, a new way of looking at the world, and with new reactions to nearly everything around you.

So do not be surprised if you actually feel different and even think differently and are happier than you have ever been before.

You're born again, a new man, God's new child. Usually when this happens, the new man frequently testifies that he even feels better physically, He now likes to face life and finds a thrill in his newfound tasks and the greatest of pleasure in the fellowship of his newfound family of fellow believers and the greatest of satisfaction in his newfound faith.

His whole life, nature, mind, heart and all is changed. His whole outlook, desires and aims in life are usually much different than before. I have often heard some even claiming that the grass actually looked greener, the sky bluer, the trees more beautiful, the sunshine more glorious and golden, and they feel like they've entered a whole new world of heaven on earth compared to the lives that they were living before. It's just that wonderful!

But of course, like all new babies, you have a lot to learn and a lot of growing to do. So don't be discouraged if you don't understand everything all at once about your new life and the whole new world in which you live and your great new family of faith.

The "milk of the Word"

If you imbibe the milk of His life-giving words from the Bible, you will begin to grow in faith and understanding. "As newborn babes," His Word tells us, "Desire the sincere milk of the Word, that ye may grow thereby" (1 Peter 2:2). If you will read His words and put them in your heart, they will be a "lamp unto your feet and a light unto your path" and a guide to you in your new life, your new experiences and your new relationships (Psalm 119:105).

The Bible is God's personal word to each of us. In it you can find the answer to almost every question and every problem you will ever have in life. Just ask God for the answers, search the Scriptures, and let Him speak to you through His Word.

This is also where your faith will come from: "Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God" (Romans 10:17). It's not a sudden boom. Faith is something that is built by faithful study of God's Word. Faith comes--it grows by hearing the Word of God. So read the Bible and you will find a constant and continual greater revelation of more and more truth, fitting more and more missing pieces into the great and puzzling picture of God's complete and perfected and final overall design.

Nothing will ever take its place! There's nothing on earth more powerful than the Word of God--inspired, beautiful, and poetic, just the naked Word of God. The only reason I and others have to write anything at all is to help others understand it and relate to it.

The true plan and foundation of God as outlined in the Bible has been almost totally buried under the rubble of churchianity and the traditions of man. As Jesus told the Pharisees, the religious leaders of His day, "In vain do ye worship Me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. For laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold the tradition of men, … making the Word of God of none effect through your traditions" (Mark 7:7, 8, 13).

Many people today have put the stories of Jesus and His disciples way back in the past. They're looked on as fairy tales; they've no real reality to them. But when suddenly it's brought up to you in the present, the fact that the things of the Lord can still happen today--that He's just as real and can still do the same, and even more so (see John 14:12)--that's what shakes and wakes people up!

We've got to try to clear away the rubble to try to uncover once again what the Bible really says and means, what Jesus taught, how He lived, and what the disciples were really trying to show by their example. In other words, we're rediscovering what God's plan was. It's been there all the time and is as good as ever, but we can't build on that foundation again till we get rid of all the rubble of the rabbis.

Besides, we are living in a new day and we have to know how to follow God under present circumstances. Today many churches condemn any new messages from God. They as good as say that God doesn't speak anymore. Well, such a God would be a dead God. Thank God He still speaks today!

So read and study His words, "old and new" (Matthew 13:52), for it is His Word by His Spirit in His love that makes you strong. Please do not neglect it, for it is food for your soul and gives you strength for the battle. Read, study, memorize, and enjoy it, and you shall have strength for your souls.

Holy Ghost power

Shortly before His crucifixion and resurrection, Jesus promised His disciples that He would send them a comforter, the Holy Ghost, to strengthen, empower, lead and guide them in their spiritual lives and relationship with Him. "But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in My name, He shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you … I will send Him unto you … and when He, the Spirit of truth, is come, He will guide you into all truth" (John 14:26; 16:7, 13).

Receiving the full anointing, infilling, or "baptism" of the Holy Spirit is usually a subsequent experience to that of salvation (when we decide to believe on and receive Jesus). This is why the apostle Paul inquired of certain disciples that he met, "Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye believed?" (Acts 19:2). The Scriptures also say that "they that believe on Him (Jesus) should receive the Holy Ghost" (John 7:39).

Like a mother, tender and gentle with a little baby, the Holy Spirit will hover over the newborn child of God, waiting, comforting, nursing, and nurturing. We all certainly need this baptism of God's love and power and to be filled to overflowing with His precious Holy Spirit in order to have the strength to pull through.

You cannot do the Master's work without the Master's power. And the means of power that God has provided for His children is His Holy Spirit. Christians really need the power and boldness of the Spirit. As Jesus told His disciples, "Ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost is come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto Me" (Acts 1:8).

This is the primary purpose of the power: for witnessing (telling others about Jesus). The greatest thing that happened on the Day of Pentecost (when the first disciples received the Holy Spirit) was not that they merely had miraculous manifestations of the "gifts of the Spirit," but that those gifts resulted in the salvation of 3,000 souls. (See Acts Chapter 2.)

However, we should not belittle nor neglect the "gifts of the Spirit." As His Word tells us, "covet earnestly the best gifts" (1 Corinthians 12:31). The most common gifts are listed in 1 Corinthians chapter 12: wisdom, knowledge, faith, healing, miracles, prophecy, discerning of spirits, other tongues and interpretation. These are all gifts from a loving heavenly Father to His children to help communicate understanding of Himself and His will, a mere sample of glorious realities to come.

You not only need the infilling of the Holy Spirit to have the power and strength to witness to others, but also to help you in your own personal communication with the Lord. When you get baptized and start communicating with the Lord, such as speaking in tongues, for example, there's a real yielding. You'll then know the spiritual ecstasy of which the physical is just an illustration. You'll have a much closer relationship with the Lord.

You can then pray in the Spirit--and your prayers will have more effect because you pray by the Spirit Himself, by His power, which is exactly what God wants. "Likewise the Spirit helpeth our infirmities: for we know not what we should pray for as we ought: but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us … according to the will of God" (Romans 8:26, 27).

It's like the Holy Spirit is the power of our prayers. Just like a radio cannot transmit a message unless it is plugged into an electric current, your prayer transmission won't have any power at all unless it's plugged into the current, the Holy Spirit, God's power. But if you're in tune, the Holy Spirit empowers and directs your prayers.

By the supernatural, miraculous power of the Holy Spirit, the Lord can even give you downright, outright, upright revelations, heaven-right, straight from Him, to show you exactly what to do when you need His guidance. "In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy paths" (Proverbs 3:6). So "be filled with the Spirit" (Ephesians 5:18), so you can have the power and boldness to witness, and so you can experience the exciting sights, sounds, visions, voices, and even resultant physical thrills, like talking in tongues--and the many other ecstatic joys of the world of His Spirit, where God Himself dwells.

Have you received the miraculous infilling of the Holy Spirit since you believed? If not, all you have to do is open up your heart and simply pray and ask Jesus to fill you with His Spirit--and He will. His Spirit will flow in to you in all His power. Jesus said, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened." (Read Luke 11:9-13.)

Heavenly communication--hearing from God

The greatest thing that each new generation of God's children has to learn for itself is to follow God and hear from Him fresh every day. Moment by moment learn something new every day, because only God is way out there in front and knows what's going to happen and is able to lead you and guide you and show you what to do.

Every day should be a new day, a new experience, a new listening to the voice of the Lord. You can hear from God every day, and you should be hearing from Him every day. God expects His children, those who know Him personally and know His will and His Word, to touch Him personally, directly, and make a direct contact with Him, not through somebody else's faith or prayers.

This is what is most important: our fellowship with God--hearing from the Lord. Contrary to popular opinion, prayer is not just to get down on your knees and speak your piece, but to let God speak His, too. And wait until He answers. You've got to get not only in prayer, but you've got to get in the Spirit. If you do, He'll tell each one of you what you're supposed to do.

You just have to have faith. Jesus speaks anytime, anywhere, if you believe. So when you ask the Lord for an answer, expect an answer, and take the first thing that comes. If you really believe and ask the Lord, and you want to hear or see, you won't be disappointed. And that thing you see or hear with the eyes or ears of your spirit, that's the Lord--and it will be such a comfort to you.

Expect God to answer. Just open up your heart and let the sunshine in. If you really want to hear Him, He'll talk to you. In fact, He's more willing to give than we are to receive. He just keeps sending and broadcasting as long as we are willing to receive.

The power's always on and the message is always there. God's Spirit is like a broadcasting station broadcasting all the time. All you have to do is throw the switch of faith and tune in. If you're really desperate and crying with your whole heart and are asking Him, He'll answer.

It doesn't have to be out loud; it doesn't have to be with an audible voice. It can just be in that "still small voice" that you feel inside (1 Kings 19:12). Sometimes it's not even words, just an impression that you have. God doesn't have to communicate in words. He can just give you a feeling or a picture or an idea.

He'll solve a lot of your problems before the day even starts if you listen to what He has to say. But if you go plunging into all your problems and troubles and your work without stopping to talk to the Lord and get directions from your Commander in Chief, then you're going to be like a soldier who's trying to fight the war all on his own without listening to headquarters. You need to learn to pray and listen to the Lord.

True, God has set down the general rules for the war in His soldier's handbook, the Bible, but He has also furnished us with an excellent means of communication with headquarters: prayer. So whenever you can't find the answer or solution to a specific situation in your Rulebook, all you have to do is call heaven and they'll let you know what to do.

God's children, His army, have got to be mostly directed from their headquarters in heaven, by the communication of the Holy Spirit, since our ground communications are very slow and very poor and extremely inadequate and frequently disrupted. But if you follow the Lord, you'll never go wrong. He's right out there with you, and He knows exactly what to do, and all you've got to do is ask Him, and you can get an answer in a split second.

Have you heard from the Lord lately? You can and ought to be hearing every day. Keep in touch with heaven. Jesus never fails.

Some prayer principles

Prayer is powerful! When we pray, things will happen and things will be different. God will answer prayer. He says, "Call unto Me and I will answer thee" (Jeremiah 33:3).

You'd be surprised how much God depends on your prayers--how concerned you are and how interested you are. He wants you to show concern and pray about things, and be specific about them. If you really believe, every prayer is heard and answered. But if you don't pray, it is not.

A lot of people have sort of a lazy attitude and seem to think the Lord will do it all no matter what. But the truth of the matter is, an awful lot depends on us, our faith and our prayers and what we want done. If we stir ourselves, then God will stir Himself. The very intensity with which you pray and really mean it or desire it is reflected in the answer.

If you only cry with half a heart, you may only get half an answer. But if you cry with your whole heart, you get a wholehearted, strong answer. If you turn it on real strong, then it reflects strong. Like a beam of light focused on a mirror, prayer will reflect or be answered with the same intensity as it originates. It will bounce back with as much power as it began with.

He says, "In the day that you call upon Me with a whole heart, I will answer thee" (Jeremiah 29:13). Our little prayers are sincere and we mean them, but we also need to really get desperate in prayer about serious situations or anything that needs it.

Jesus never fails. He will always answer when we stir ourselves to call upon Him with a whole heart. However, He does not always answer us right away, which sometimes tests our faith and draws us closer to Him as we are driven to His Word to try to find some answers from what He has already said while waiting for more direct and specific answers in prayer.

But if you stay close to Him, He'll never fail you. He'll never forsake you. He'll never let you down. His delays are not denials. Even though He may not always answer just the way we'd like, keep trusting Him and He'll never fail. Even "if we believe not, yet He remaineth faithful: He cannot deny Himself" (2 Timothy 2:13). And He cannot break His Word--He is going to see you through.

God has made promises in His Word, so when you pray, bring those promises with you to remind Him. When you remind God of His Word, it shows you have faith in it. It's a positive declaration of your faith and your knowledge of the Word which pleases Him. (See Hebrews 11:6.) It's like a lawyer in a courtroom reminding the judge of the law of the land.

"Whereby are given to us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these (His promises) ye might be partakers of the divine nature" (2 Peter 1:4). The Lord even says, "I will give thee the desires of thine heart"; "No good thing will He withhold from them that walk uprightly"; "And our God shall supply all your needs" (Psalm 37:4; Psalm 84:11; Philippians 4:19).

You have to quote the terms of the contract (the Bible) to the contract maker (God), and hold Him to it. So it's important to familiarize yourself with His Word. Faith is built on the Word; that's the contract and the law. That's why you can claim it and hold the Lord to His promises.

He is bound by His Word. So remind Him of it, cling to His promises, memorize and quote them continually, and never doubt for a moment that God is going to answer--and He will. He wants to! Trust Him. And thank Him for the answer, even if you don't see it immediately.

But always remember His conditions, His terms of the contract: faith and obedience. For "without faith it is impossible to please Him: For he that cometh to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him" (Hebrews 11:6). And "if ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land" (Isaiah 1:19).

Faith and obedience come first, then God answers prayer. If we are obeying the Lord and are faithful and trusting and believing, then God's got to bless and answer. He can and wants to give you what you need in every area. But if He's not, it's not His fault. Something's wrong somewhere.

If you're not fully obeying the Lord, then you can't have faith for God to bless you. How can God bless disobedience? He cannot protect, prosper, or bless you when you are out of His will and running around outside of the secret place and from under His shadow--His wings--and His fortress of perfect fellowship with Him. (See Psalm 91.)

But if you delight yourself in the Lord most of all and truly want to do His will, it is His delight to also give you the desires of your own heart, because He's the one who puts them there when we're pleasing Him (Psalm 37:4). He gives us what we have faith for. So "seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness; and then all these things shall be added unto you" (Matthew 6:33).

"Fighting the good fight" (1 Timothy 6:12)

A lot of people seem to think that as soon as they receive Jesus they'll really get happy and all their problems will be solved and they're never going to have any more and things are going to go real smoothly.

Just because they won one battle, salvation by grace, a God-given victory, they think they have some kind of permanent victory. Well, the battle for their soul is won and it is a permanent victory of salvation forever; they will never have to fight that one again, thank God!

They're saved, they have the Lord, they've got the Holy Spirit, they've got the greatest power in the world. You've got eternal life; you're not going to hell; you don't have to worry about death anymore; you don't have to worry about life anymore, and you've got the Lord on your side, or you're on His side.

The Devil can't get you back once you're saved--you're the Lord's forever. (See John 6:37; 10:28-29.) But he tries hard to keep you from serving God, so he gives you a lot of trouble. If the Devil can't keep you from being a Christian, he'll try to keep you from being a revolutionary Christian. He'll try to make a dead one out of you instead of a real live one!

He'll try to put you to sleep and put you out of action, so you at least won't get in his way. He'll try to keep you from being a good or effective witness or a good testimony. If he can't destroy you, he'll try to destroy your testimony.

The biggest thing the Devil will try to do is defeat you from being a good example to win others, because he knows now he's going to lose others from his clutches because of you. You've already gotten there, but he knows he's now going to lose others too through you.

If he can scare you out before you begin, then you'll never even get started and you'll never accomplish what God wants you to do. So for God's sake and the sake of others and your own sake, don't let the Devil frighten you or bluff you out of what the Lord wants you to do before you even get started. That's when he attacks you the worst and that's when the Lord allows him to attack you the worst, because the Lord is testing you to see if you really mean business.

It's like in the old days of World War I trench warfare: Things were usually comparatively quiet in no-man's land--the unconquered territory between two enemies--until one or the other of them decided to attack. Then the other side really opened up and let them have it with all barrels. The minute you go over the top, the Devil starts shooting!

The Lord lets the Devil do it to keep us humble and close to Him. Because you can be almost as sure as shooting that the Enemy doesn't start shooting until you start charging into his territory and attacking him. Then he really starts socking you back.

We're fighters. We're at war! So get tough and fight the Devil and his forces, and if you keep fighting, he cannot win. He can only win if you surrender; he can only win if you chicken out and quit and wave the white flag of sickening surrender.

You can't let the Devil say "boo" and scare you out and make you run. You have to stand up and fight him and attack him and resist him so he will run and flee from you! "Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the Devil, and he will flee from you" (James 4:7).

When the Devil tempts you to get down and discouraged, fight! Don't even listen to him, much less surrender. He's a liar and the father of them, the father of deceit, the father of lies, Jesus said, so why should we listen to him (John 8:44). Why listen to his doubts and fears and lies when he says terrible things and tries to scare you?

So don't just stand there; do something! Sing, shout, praise the Lord, quote scriptures. Sock it to him with the Word. That's the way Jesus did it when the Devil tempted Him and lied to Him. He just quoted the scriptures: "It is written." (See Matthew 4:1-11.) The Devil is a liar and the father of it, and he can't take the Word. Resist the Enemy and he'll flee from you. He'll turn tail and run!

Take up that white-hot sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, and cut the Devil to the heart. "For the Word of God is quick and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword." Instead of surrendering, attack! Conduct an aggressive warfare. "Greater is He that is in you (Jesus), than he that is in the world (the Devil)." So "fight the good fight of faith" and "neither give place to the Devil." "Put on the whole armor of God." "And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly." Don't give up. (Hebrews 4:12; 1 John 4:4; 1 Timothy 6:12; Ephesians 4:27, 6:11-19; Romans 16:20.)

When things go wrong

We know that God does not fail and will never let us down if we are trusting and obeying Him and operating according to His will and what He knows is best. Therefore, when things begin to go awry, we usually know that either He's trying to show us something or we're missing the mark somewhere, failing in some area or being mistaken in some way about the way we're doing things, or not moving in the right direction in the way we're going about it.

With those of us who really love the Lord and are doing our best to serve Him as best we know how, often at considerable personal sacrifice and even some measure of suffering, inconvenience, discomfort, or simple dissatisfaction, we know that God loves us and is doing His best to help us if we're doing our best to help Him.

So if things aren't going quite right, we certainly know it's not God's fault, but that we must just not be getting our signals straight somehow or our wires are crossed somewhere in some way that's not suitable or pleasing to Him.

So of course, the first thing to do is to look around and see and ask Him what we are doing wrong or how we could do it better or if we're making some kind of mistake, or even in some way actually disobeying Him.

God always has a reason, and I believe nothing happens by accident to one of His children. I have found in my own life, and that of many others, that He always has a purpose for them, although it is not always revealed immediately. He gets some of his greatest victories out of seeming defeats!

Sometimes things happen to draw us much closer to the Lord--to keep us humble and more dependent on Him--such as chastenings or spankings from the Lord. He says in Hebrews 12, "Whom the Lord loveth, He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom He receiveth" (Hebrews 12:6).

Like any good father, it hurts Him to see His children be bad, because He loves them, and He knows their badness hurts them, so He tries to correct them. When we won't keep His commandments or heed His loving warnings, in love He is forced to chasten us with the rod to rescue us from the ruin of our folly.

Although God's spankings are sometimes hard to take, they're a token of His love, His intolerable compliment, and are good for us if we learn our lesson thereby, and are thus brought into harmony and happiness with Him and His creation and each other through truth, faith, love, repentance, confession, forgiveness, and restoration.

"Many are the afflictions of the righteous; but the Lord delivereth him out of them all" (Psalm 34:19). And this is one thing that helps keep us so righteous: our many afflictions. "But if ye be without chastisement, then are ye bastards, and not sons." So thank God for the rod. It's always good for us, and "yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby" (Hebrews 12:5-13).

"The trying of your faith" (1 Peter 1:7)

Another reason the Lord allows these things to befall us is to test our faith--to see how much we really love the Lord and what price we're willing to pay to serve Him.

God tests our faith to see if it's real gold faith and if we'll still believe and obey Him no matter what happens. He says that "the trying of your faith is more precious than gold"--the testing of it. "Yea," He says, "than much fine gold." Gold will go through the fire and still come out pure gold, even purer gold, if it is real gold. (See 1 Peter 1:7, Psalm 19:10.)

Real gold--no matter how hot the fire or how long the fire, how hot the test or how long it lasts--will still come out gold, even finer gold. "Yea, than much fine gold." Because the fire burns away all the dross and the impurities.

Real faith can stand the test and go through the fire and still come out better than ever before, like gold. But faith that cannot stand a test is no faith at all. If it doesn't go through the fire, it's not faith. If it doesn't come out as pure gold, it's not faith. Because real faith stands the test--whatever it may be.

So "think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you; but rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings" (1 Peter 4:12-13).

When things look darkest, don't look down. Look up! Don't murmur and complain. Start praising the Lord, and you'll often praise your way right out of the pit into which the Devil is trying to cast you. The Lord loves praise; the High and the Holy One dwelleth in the praises of His people (Psalm 22:3).

Doubt, fear, discouragement, and murmuring kill. Look at all that murmuring older generation of Israel who died in the wilderness for their lack of faith. (See the book of Exodus.) But faith, trust, courage, and praising the Lord "maketh alive" (1 Samuel 2:6). If you want to knock the Devil for a loop, just start praising the Lord no matter what happens. "In everything give thanks" (1 Thessalonians 5:18). The Devil just can't stand it. He turns tail and runs. "Resist the Enemy and he shall flee from thee" (James 4:7).

So let's try to be able to take our testings and our temptations. The Lord says He will never give you more than you're able to bear and that He will always make a way of escape. Somehow He'll make it easier for you or at least help you to bear it.

"There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it" (1 Corinthians 10:13).

Keep your eyes ahead on the goal, like those in Hebrews 11, the faith chapter. By faith, by faith, by faith--they looked ahead, they looked forward. They weren't satisfied with being a citizen of this world; they looked for a country made by God, a heavenly country, a heavenly city, built by the Lord.

They were willing to go through all the trials and tribulations and be strangers and pilgrims here and people without a country, because they knew they had one coming. And they knew it was worth fighting for, living for, and dying for.

So keep going for God. Keep believing and obeying, no matter what happens. The outlook may not always be easy, but the uplook is great. "Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life" (Revelation 2:10).

The breaking process

My mother once asked the great evangelist, Paul Rader, "Why are the laborers always so few?" And he replied: "They can't seem to be broken fast enough, and God can only use truly broken men and women." How true! God only uses broken men and women--no others will do. Others are too self-confident in their own flesh.

God has to break them, melt them, and mold them again in the hands of the Potter to make them a better vessel--but He won't force it. The breaking depends upon you and your yieldedness and willingness to be made willing, total humility, which is synonymous with total love, so you're willing to go anywhere, anytime, and do anything, for anybody, and be nobody, to please Him and help others.

He even uses our mistakes as a way to keep us humble and often gets some of His greatest victories out of seeming defeats--victories of brokenness, humility, and more utter dependence on Him, which you must have to be able to truly inspire and lead others.

In fact, the list is almost endless of all the people throughout the Bible that God had to humble before He could use them--of all the leaders God had to bring down to the depths before they could stand to be exalted--lest they would have taken credit to themselves and not given God the glory. Because, by the time God's ready to make you really great, He makes absolutely nothing out of you, so there's nothing left of you at all--and it's only Jesus.

For unless you have been broken, humbled, humiliated, and come to the end of yourself and have nothing left but God, He will never be able to use you as greatly as He would like. But when He can get you out of the way, then He has a chance.

"That the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us." "When we are weak, we are strong, for then His strength has a chance to be made perfect in our weakness"--to show it's God, and not us, that He may be glorified (2 Corinthians 4:7; 12:9-10). Sometimes the weaker you get in the flesh, the stronger you are in the spirit. When you're so weak you don't feel capable or sufficient, then God has a chance to take over and do things to suit Himself. When you become nothing but a tool and a channel, then He can really use you.

All glory be to Jesus! He's the one that does it all. We're merely His yielded instruments, vessels of clay in the hands of the potter (Isaiah 64:8).--Merely doing His will and serving His purpose, for which we were called and foreordained before the foundation of the earth. (See Ephesians 1:3-6.) It is God that gives us the strength and God that has done it all (Philippians 2:13). We are the work of God--the work of His fingers. So give Him all the glory.

The minute you start patting yourself on the back, God will see to it that you're humbled to bring you out of it. He's a jealous God and He wants and deserves the glory and will have no other gods before Him (Exodus 20:5). So you'd better not start admiring your own arm of flesh or you're apt to lose it. Give God all the glory!

The biggest failures in the Word of God were the big-shot boys who thought they could do it in their natural wisdom and went out and fell flat on their faces. The danger only came when they thought they themselves were doing it, and that it was their strength that was saving them, their arm that was saving them.

One of the biggest dangers you have is to begin thinking it's you. It's God's anointing. If He withdraws it, you're just as flat as ever. "Pride cometh before a fall" (Proverbs 16:18). "Let him that thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he fall" (1 Corinthians 10:12). For unto him who truly hath what it takes it shall be given, but from him who thinketh that he hath and boasteth of it, it shall be taken away from him even that which he thinketh that he hath (See Luke 8:18).

So for God's sake, be honest with yourself. Confess to yourself continually how hopeless you are without God. Give Him all the glory for anything good about you. "What hast thou that thou didst not receive?" (1 Corinthians 4:7). "Every good gift and every perfect gift cometh down from above" (James 1:17). Give God all the glory.

Give God all the credit all the time at every turn for every little thing, and He will never fail to continue to prosper you and empower you, and protect you and keep you.

Sainthood: Pious perfection versus honest humility

God's idea of saintliness is not sinless perfection. It's a sinner saved by grace, a sinner who has no perfection, no righteousness of his own at all, but is totally dependent on the grace and the love and the mercy of God by faith. Believe it or not, those are the only saints there are--there are no others.

King David was one of the worst sinners that the world had known, but he was also one of the greatest saints, because he knew he was totally dependent on the love and the mercy and the grace of God for forgiveness. In other words, he gave God all the glory. He knew it was all the Lord and that he was a hell of a mess and blew it every time, except for the Lord.

God knows you're anything but perfect and can't be perfect and never will be perfect, and usually you're pretty much of a mess, like the rest of us. The only question, the only standard is: Do you depend on the Lord totally, trust Him and His grace and His love and His mercy, and give Him all the glory and all the credit?

Most people don't realize what God's idea of righteousness is. Their idea of righteousness is so different from God's. When you feel so righteous and good, it's because you are self-righteous and not closer to God, but closer to yourself! It's a perverted idea of righteousness--a kind of "sinless self-perfection."

If you're trusting so much in your own righteousness, your own perfection, it's almost impossible to confess your own mistakes and shortcomings, because it destroys your self-confidence and it nearly shatters your self-reliance, because it proves you're not perfect--but you hate to even admit it to yourself.

This is one reason why we really need to confess our sins--because it helps keep us humble. It helps you to be honest with yourself. And if you're honest with yourself, you will be honest with the Lord, your loved ones, and those around you.

This takes humility of the kind that only God can give, because the flesh is not willing to do these things. It's always vindicating itself, protecting itself, justifying itself, and trying to prove it can do it. The flesh likes to think of itself as all-powerful, all-knowing, all-seeing, and that there are no alps. Because it's just the inborn sinful nature of man to want the glory and so be unable to confess.

So the hardest one to confess our faults to is ourselves. We hate even to admit to ourselves our own mistakes, sins, and shortcomings, it is sometimes so discouraging, humbling, and humiliating. So we try to excuse ourselves to ourselves, and defend ourselves from ourselves, and exonerate and absolve ourselves from all sin, so that we can stand to face ourselves.

This only tends to make matters worse, because when we're not honest with ourselves and we keep trying to fool ourselves, we try to do the same with God and others, and the result is one awful mess. You make a mess of your own life, hurt all those associated with you, and hurt God most of all, as well as hinder your testimony and ministry to others who need you.

So may God help us all to be honest with ourselves, others, and God. It will help us to keep from being false to any man. Falsification is the product of pride, an effort to hide the awful truth of which we are ashamed.

Confessing that you're a sinner, really exposing yourself and your sins, reminds you that you're no picture of purity and innocence. Although you no longer feel quite as angelic, you're a whole lot more saintly according to God's idea of saintliness. The person who knows he's a sinner and therefore gives God all the glory if anything good comes of what he's done--that's what the Lord looks on as saintliness. As Paul said, "I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing" (Romans 7:18). There's nothing good about us or our flesh; it's only the Lord.

In fact, every one of us is a hell of a mess, and if we don't keep our eyes on the Lord and our mind on His Word, we're doomed to defeat, doubt, disillusionment, and final failure. None of us can stand the sight of ourselves. We're a mess and nothing without the Lord, and only He can do it, if we will just yield to Him. As Jesus said, "without Me ye can do nothing" (John 15:5).

When Peter walked on the water and started looking at himself, he started to sink. If you start looking at yourself, you're going to sink sink sink, when you think think think, because you stink stink stink! You have to keep your eyes on Jesus. Let go and let God. You can't do it yourself. You can't get the victory. Only God can give it. You can't earn it, work for it, work it up, pray it down, pray it through, and become so wholly sanctified that you're some kind of sinless saint.

So let's forget about trying to be perfect, because we never will be. Let's just follow the Lord and do the best we can. Amen?

Changing the world with love

Our job, the job that God has given to each of His children, is to give His Word and His love to others, to preach the Gospel, to sow the seed, to witness. That's what God has called us for. Jesus commanded His disciples to "Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel (Good News) to every creature" (Mark 16:15). And we must do the same. For "the harvest (of hungry, searching souls) truly is plenteous, but the laborers (the workers who will gather them in) are few" (Matthew 9:37).

But perhaps you're discouraged and think, "Well, who am I? What can I do? It all seems so hopeless and impossible. It looks like there's nothing that one person can do to change things for the better, so what's the use of trying? What's the use of doing anything?" And maybe you're tempted to just give up and let the world go to hell, which it sometimes seems to deserve.

Although you may not be able to change the whole world, you can change your part of the world. Don't ever think that because there's so much darkness, it's no use to have just a little light, because even one candle can be seen a mile away when it's dark. (See Matthew 5:14-16.)

Everybody has influence. Your life is bound to affect others. No man is an island. Everybody's influencing somebody--even when you seem to be all alone. "For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself" (Romans 14:7). Whether we live or die, we have some effect on others and the world. You're either going to pull people up to your level or drag them down to yours--one or the other. It's up to you!

The place to start is with you--your own heart, your own mind, your own spirit, your own life. If you can change just one life, even your own, you have changed a part of the world, and you have proven that there is hope that it can be changed. The very atmosphere around you will be changed if you even change yourself by the power of God's love.

Then change not only your own life but also those of your own family, of your own home. You'll have a new home, a new family, with new lives, new minds, new hearts, new spirits, filled with the truth and the love of God, the life of God, the Word of God. Then your little family can start trying to change the people you contact from day to day.

You can even go out and make a special effort to reach lonely, hungry, needy hearts, seeking love, seeking truth, seeking they know not what, but seeking happiness, desperately seeking to satisfy their longing, yearning hearts.

You will find that there are many around you who are lonely and longing for love, just waiting for you to make the first move. So many poor folks today who are always seeking genuine love, seldom, if ever, find it simply because there are so few of God's people who are willing to show them His love and manifest it by action, to help them with their physical needs.

It is not enough to merely say to them, "I love you," and yet not try to help them physically in whatever way they may need--food, clothing, shelter, companionship, and so on--this is not love. True, the need for real love is a spiritual need, but it must be manifested physically in works--"faith which worketh by love" (Galatians 5:6).

The only love of God they may see is the love they see in you, and if you don't show them the love they can see and feel, they're going to have a hard time believing that there is someone up there whom they don't know and that He really loves them.

So step out by faith and talk to someone today about God's love. Be a faithful witness and testimony of what has happened to you, what God has done for you personally, and you can start changing your part of the world.

If you want to know how to witness personally, just read the Gospels. See how Jesus handled personal witnessing, how He handled questions. It is just beautiful!

If we preach Christ and God's love to others and they receive it as such, then they will be saved. Those you win to the Lord will be your brothers and sisters forever. They'll be thankful to you for all eternity that you told them about Jesus and showed them His love.

What everybody needs is love. The first and most important thing to show them is that you love them. The greatest need of all is love. "The greatest of these is love" (1 Corinthians 13:13). So love someone today. Find out what wonders love can do!

You'll find a whole new world of love you have only dreamed of. There are wonders of love that you can enjoy along with some other lonely soul if you will only try. If you give love, you'll get love. So love! "For God is love" and "Love never fails" (1 John 4:8; 1 Corinthians 13:8).

Giving your all to God

When you have yielded your life to God on His altar of sacrifice and asked Him to take it, He will--and He will try to use it for His glory as much as you will let Him. (See Romans 12:1.) You are His, and He loves you and will do His best for you in trying to make you useful and happy in His loving service for others, that you might bring them life and happiness too, as you have found it in Jesus. Since He has been preparing you for His service all of your life, He will undoubtedly use what you've learned in the past, your hidden talents, at some time or other, sooner or later, for His glory. (See Matthew 25:14-30.)

Life, liberty, and the giving of happiness to others: these are things that only God can give, and the only things that will ever truly satisfy your spirit. So if you want to be happy and make others happy, "seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added unto you" (Matthew 6:33).

For He desires your love and for you to love Him first of all, above all, and seek first His kingdom. If you do, He's happy to add all these other things unto you, including every desire of your heart--as long as you delight yourself in Him. "Delight thyself in the Lord; and He shall give thee the desires of thine heart" (Psalm 37:4).

All He asks is for us to commit ourselves. He'll do everything else for us--give us strength, power, wisdom, life, and love. Only God can do this, but we must be willing and yielded to Him, and make the decision to put Him first without reservations.

Only then can we find the fullness of faith that we seek, when we really begin to forsake all and follow the Lord. When we're willing to "take up our cross and deny ourselves" (Luke 9:23), and yield our pride and will and follow Him, all the rest will come, because He'll give us the power as we surrender to Him.

We've simply got to do the obeying. We've got to do what we know God has told us to do. We have to first of all do the forsaking, the dedicating to God, the commitment to God, and then He will do the rest. Do what you can do and He will do what you can't do.

So don't make the mistake of putting the cart before the horse. The blessings don't precede obedience. You can't say, "Lord, You bless me and do this or that for me, then I'll obey." God tests you first to see if you'll obey, and then He can bless you. It's such a common mistake people make.

If you obey what you know God wants you to do, then He will show you more truth; and when you obey that, He'll give you a little more, and step by step, as you follow Him, He shows you more and more. The trouble with some Christians is that they stopped obeying the little truth they did have, and as a result, God hasn't been able to give them any more.

He can make something out of nothing--even you--if you'll just yield, trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. Are you willing to do both? The one cannot go without the other. You can't obey without trusting, and you can't trust without obeying.

If you're willing to be what God wants you to be--not what you are, but what God wants you to be--then He can mightily use you. In fact, there is no limit to what He can do with a man who is yielded and willing to do His will.

"Choose this day whom you will serve. If the Lord be God, then follow Him. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord" (1 Kings 18:21; Joshua 24:15).

You are no fool to give a life you cannot keep for a love you will never lose. "For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: But whosoever will lose his life for My sake," Jesus said, "the same shall save it" (Luke 9:24). May God bless you with a new life and a new love in Him.

We believe in love: love for God and others, for "God is love" (1 John 4:8). That's our religion--love!

Love is everything, for without love there is nothing--no friends, no families, no fathers or mothers or children or health or happiness or heaven. There could be none of these without love. And none of these is possible without God, for He is love.

This is the solution to all of the problems of today as well as to the problems of the past: love. True love: the love of God and the love of fellow man.--This Spirit of God's divine love which helps us all to fulfill His great commandment to love one another (John 15:12). This is still God's solution, even in such a complex, confused, and highly complicated society as that of the world today.

For it is man's rejection of the love of God and His loving laws that causes him to be selfish and unloving and vicious and cruel and unkind to each other--man's inhumanity to man--which is so apparent in today's weary world with all of its oppression, tyranny, and exploitation, robbery by the rich, suffering from hunger, malnutrition, overwork, abuse, the tortures of war, and nightmares of perpetual fearful insecurity.

All of these evils are caused by men's lack of love for God and each other and their defiance of His laws of love, faith, peace, and harmony with Him, each other, and His whole creation. "For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?" (1 John 4:20).

It's really just that simple: If we love God, we can love each other. We can then follow His rules of life, liberty, and the possession of happiness.

This is why Jesus said the first and greatest commandment is to love--to "love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind … and the second is like unto it"--it's almost equal, almost the same--"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself" (Matthew 22:37-39).

Those He was speaking to then asked Him, "Who is my neighbor?" And with the story of the Good Samaritan, He tried to show them that it is anyone who needs our help, regardless of their race, creed, color, nationality, or condition.

For if we have real love, we can't face a needy situation without doing something about it. We can't just pass by the poor man on the road to Jericho. We must take action like the Samaritan did. (See Luke 10:25-37.) Compassion must be put into action. That's the difference between pity and compassion: Pity just feels sorry; compassion does something about it.

We must demonstrate our faith by our works, and love can seldom be proven without tangible manifestation in action. To say you love someone and yet not try to help them physically in whatever way they may need--food, clothing, shelter, and so on--this is not love. True, the need for real love is a spiritual need, but it must be manifested physically in works--"faith which worketh by love" (Galatians 5:6).

For "whoso hath this world's goods, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him? My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth" (1 John 3:17-18).

However, we believe that the greatest manifestation of our love is not the mere sharing of our material things and personal possessions, but the sharing of ourselves and our personal services for others, which is our faith, and which results in our works and the sharing of our material possessions. Jesus Himself had nothing material to share with His disciples, only His love and His life, which He gave for them and for us, that we too might have life and love forever.

For "greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends" (John 15:13). So we consider that the sharing of ourselves, our love and our life with others, is the greatest of all sharing and our ultimate goal, as well as our present means to that end.

In fact, this is why God created man to begin with: to love--to love and enjoy Him forever and to try to help others to do the same. It was God who created love and gave man the need to love and be loved, and He alone can satisfy the deepest yearning of every human soul for total love and complete understanding.

Although the temporal things of this earth can satisfy the body, only God and His eternal love can ever fill that aching spiritual void of every man's heart which He created for Himself alone. The human spirit, that intangible personality of the real you that dwells within that body, can never be completely satisfied with anything less than utter union with the great and loving Spirit that created it.

He is the very spirit of love itself, true love, everlasting love, real love, genuine love that never ends from a lover who never leaves, the Lover of all lovers, God Himself.

He's pictured in His Son Christ Jesus, who came for love and lived in love and died for love that we might live and love forever. "For God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:16).

To receive God's love in Jesus, all you have to do is open your heart, pray, and ask Him to come in. Jesus promised, "Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: If any man hear My voice, and open the door, I will come into him" (Revelation 3:20). He waits lovingly at your heart's door, not forcing Himself upon you, not pushing the door open, but waiting for you to simply ask Him in.

When you have done this, your whole life will be changed, like a newborn baby born into a whole new world with a new spirit as a new child of God. His Spirit within you will then enable you to do the humanly impossible: love God and man.

You will discover true happiness--not in your personal pursuit of selfish pleasure and satisfaction, but in finding God and giving His life to others and bringing them happiness. Then happiness pursues and overtakes you, personally, without your even seeking it for yourself.

"For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap" (Galatians 6:7). If you sow love, you're going to reap love. If you sow friendship, you're going to reap friendship. So obey God's law of love--unselfish love, love for Him and others--and give that love which is His and their due, and so shall ye also receive. "For with the same measure that ye mete withal, it shall be measured to you again" (Luke 6:38).

Find out what wonders love can do. You'll find a whole new world you have only dreamed of! There are wonders of love that you yourself can enjoy along with some other lonely soul if you will only try. If you give love, you'll get love.

Love wasn't put in your heart to stay; love isn't love till you give it away. Receive God's love in Jesus today. He's the only truth, the only peace, and the only way. Love never fails, for God is love (1 Corinthians 13:8).

Long live love! Love one another. God is love.

The Lord really leaves a lot to us and our concern and prayer. If you only cry with half a heart, you only get half an answer. If you cry with your whole heart, you get a wholehearted strong answer. If you turn it on real strong, then it reflects strong. Like a beam of light focused on a mirror, prayer will reflect or be answered with the same intensity as it originates. It will bounce back with as much power as it began with.

The Lord leaves a lot up to us. If we stir ourselves, then God will stir Himself. An awful lot depends on us, our faith and our prayers and what we want done. A lot of people have sort of a lazy attitude and seem to think the Lord will do it all, no matter what. But the truth of the matter is, a lot depends on us.

He wants us to show concern and pray about it, and be specific about it. If you really believe, every prayer is heard and answered. But if you don't pray, it is not! An awful lot depends on you. It's like you have to visualize the people you're praying for and pray specifically for them with that thought on your heart and ask the Lord to do this or that for them, and it is no sooner said than done. In fact, He often answers before you call--because He knows you're going to (Isaiah 65:24).

The very intensity with which you pray and really mean it or desire it is reflected in the answer. It all depends on your prayers. The beam that hits the satellite is reflected according to the intensity of the original beam.

When you play tennis a great deal, you know that the angle the ball leaves the racket depends on the angle at which the ball strikes the racket. The power with which the racket hits the ball and where it goes depends on the force with which it hits the ground and the stroke of the player. How high it bounces has a lot to do with the way it is directed and the force with which it is directed and the place that it strikes, all of which determine where it finally winds up.

Another example is of a ball striking a bat. The way the pitcher throws the ball, the force with which he throws it, and the angle and the force with which the bat hits it, all affect where it lands. Both the pitcher and batter have a part in the outcome.

Another example is a billiard ball. Billiards is the most scientific of all sports having to do with the bouncing of balls. It's the most amazing thing how an expert can take a billiard ball and shoot that billiard ball with a cue! The way his cue strikes the ball can even give it a twist to make it curve.

He controls the original force and direction and the power and way in which it is sent out. The spin and everything that happens is a reflection of the way he started it off. He can do it so it'll hit a cushion and bounce back and hit another ball, and that ball will bounce in another direction and hit a third ball into the pocket. He controls the original direction and force, and if it is guided just right, the cushion and the other balls reflect his ball and they bounce it back and give it a little extra push.

The fellow who does the break shot starts off with the triangle of balls and the opening shot that scatters the balls all over the table. The second man then has to shoot to get all the balls he can into the pockets, which are the scoring shots. He is not allowed to move the balls by hand from their original positions, even his own ball, and is not allowed to adjust the positions where they have been created, so to speak, or where they have landed. The only thing he can do is try to shoot his ball in such a way that it strikes the cushions and the other balls at such an angle that it knocks one or more of them in to the pockets.

God is the one who fired the break shot, and everything is out there in the position He destined it to be in. He has set the stage with His original shot by the creation of planets, etc., and the rules by which the game is played and the position of all the balls, and you've got to play it by His rules and the position He's put all the balls in.

He set the stage with his creation, like the planets, the sun and the stars, etc., and they move according to His rules. In other words, He sets the original pattern and the original rules, but then we can do something with what He has set up. The original position of all these things has the major control of what happens, because of their position.

But the way in which we shoot at them is like our prayers--the force, the angle, the twist, or spin, or the "English" you put on it--the way in which you shoot is like the way a prayer is worded or expressed, or the way you ask God to answer. It may be a forceful prayer in the right direction, but how do you want God to answer? Then the position of the various people and circumstances involved and the distances and positions of all factors affected, like the billiard balls, all have something to do with the time that it takes to do the job.

Really, those astral bodies, like individuals, regulate by their original position the time it takes and how they reflect. How come it takes so long for some prayers to be answered? Again, the picture of the billiard table: The balls are numbered, and the players are supposed to hit a ball of a certain number in proper sequence at a certain time in the game.

But you can't hit that ball until its number comes up. And, of course, the one who created the game numbered the balls. You don't regulate where that ball's going to be at that time it's supposed to be hit. That's all ordered by the way the balls were scattered in the first place. You have to wait until your ball and that ball are in just the right position in relation to that corner pocket to make the right shot to get the ball where you want it to go.

It's like the lead player is God, and He is the One that made the break shot that scattered the balls originally. As you go along, He plays too and keeps changing the position of the balls by his shots. The only difference is, God is not trying to beat you. He's actually trying to help you win if you are on His side, like playing doubles: Your partner is God, and God's shots are made to try to make it easier for you. He tries to "set it up" for you.

The same is true in another game, croquet: God is like your partner and He tries to give you setups to make it easier for you to shoot. Of course, it doesn't matter how good God sets things up, if you don't shoot straight, it won't do any good. And no matter how good your shot is, that ball, or person, has to be in a certain position for it to hit right. You may be firing away, but if the object of your prayers is not at the right angle of reflection, it's not getting through to him.

A lot depends on him, the recipient of your prayers, too, to get the benefit of your prayers. You've got to be in the right position, and he has to be in the right position.

The Holy Spirit is the power of the prayer. He provides its current. The power can be there, but if your transmitter is out of whack, it won't transmit right: If there's sin, or you're not tuned in right, or on the wrong channel, it won't work.

Let's take the radio for another example. You're going to send a radio message across the world for someone over there to pick it up. Your transmission won't have any power at all unless it's plugged in to the current, the Holy Spirit, God's power.

Your transmitter has to be in good condition. If it's faulty or out of tune or on the wrong channel, it won't transmit like it ought to and won't get the message through clear. On top of that, it's got to be beamed in exactly the right direction at God's satellite. God, in a sense, really controls the limits of the direction of the prayer, because if you don't beam it in the general area where He wants it to go so it hits His satellite, it will miss the point altogether. It won't do a bit of good if you're firing off in some other direction. You've got to be right on target in the direction God wants it to go, or it won't bounce right.

But if you're in tune, the Holy Spirit directs it. If your set is automated and the Holy Spirit is absolutely in control, then it's automatically tuned just right--power, beam, direction, everything--by the Lord's own computer, and it can't miss! But if you've been fooling around with the dials and the settings, you can mess up the whole works by trying to do it your way.

Also, the Lord has to have the satellite of His will in just the right position to bounce it down to the receiver, and the receiver's got to be in just the right position to receive it. The satellite is on a fixed orbit that you can't change, like God's overall plan that is fixed. You must aim within that fixed orbit. Then, depending on your prayer and the recipient of your prayer, and providing conditions are right and you aim right in the direction that God has already sent the satellite of His will, you can hit right on target! It's got to go according to God's general direction if you want it to work.

Then if your receiver gets in the right position, he'll receive it. If the recipient is tuned in right and has the right power and is on the right channel, he will get the message.

So there are an awful lot of factors which affect the whole process of prayer. Which is one reason, of course, why you don't always get the answer right away. The trouble may be with you, or it's may not be God's time because His satellite isn't in the right position yet, or the trouble may be at the other end.

It's like a mathematical problem: The more complicated the problem is and the more factors involved, the more difficult the solution. The bigger the problem and the more parts there are to the problem, the harder it is to work out the answer. But for a simple little problem like two plus two, it's easy to get a simple little answer like four, because you have very little involved.

So prayer depends on three principal factors: Your position, God's position and the position of the other person for whom you're praying. In other words, it depends on the cue ball, the target ball and the pocket--the position of all three. You don't control it completely, they don't control it completely, and God has specifically limited Himself not to control it completely, but to let it be affected by your position and their position.

The position of His satellite is set, but how it is used depends on you and them. In other words, He's set the position of His overall plans, but how you fit into the plan depends on your position and their position.

So God has left a lot up to you and a lot up to them. He'll always do His part--His orbit is set and His satellite will always be in the place it is supposed to be. The only thing that will change things is your position and their position.

You can't rush God. You've got to wait till it's God's time. But if you wait on God's time and you shoot straight at the right time, you'll get the right answer!



It is a gift of God performed by a miraculous transformation of our lives when we accept His truth in the love of His Son, Jesus, by the work of God's Spirit. All we have to do is receive Him. Our new life is only by grace, never by works, or confession sessions, or battling in the flesh with our sins. "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God: Not of works, lest any man should boast" (Ephesians 2:8-9). If God can't do it, nobody can!

You've got to believe God's Word by faith, and accept that you've been saved just through the Word. This is all that saves us, not any other exterior things. In water baptism, for example, the preacher isn't actually washing away your sins; he's merely going through the motions of outward show of an inward spiritual change. Some people put their faith in the water instead of Jesus, who is the Word. As John said, "In the beginning was the Word and ... the Word was made flesh (Jesus), and as many as received Him (Jesus the Word), to them gave He power to become the sons of God" (John 1:1,14,12).

This revolutionary new life is often quite a surprise to our loved ones and associates, and is sometimes called salvation or conversion. But let me reassure you that this has been a very common miracle of God throughout history. Jesus called it being "born again" of His Spirit (John 3:3), and Paul called it the new birth in which "old things are passed away and all things are become new" (2 Corinthians 5:17). It is often such a remarkable transformation and actual personality change that God's Word likens it to the death and burial of the old and a resurrection of the new to an entirely new life and way of living. "For as many of us as were baptized (spiritually) into Jesus were ... buried with Him unto death: that like as Christ was raised from the dead ... even so should we walk in newness of life" (Galatians 3:27; Romans 6:4).

It is eternal

For a few years as a young Christian I was deceived by the delusive doctrine of off-again, on-again, gone-again eternal insecurity and the religion of works, until one day as a teenager I was thrilled to discover the simple truth of John 3:36. I found all I had to do was believe, and that did it! "He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life." Right now! No ifs, ands, or buts about it. No "providing you're a good boy and go to church every Sunday." You have eternal life through His Son, which is the gift of God, and you cannot lose it, for He will keep you. As Jesus said, "I give unto them eternal life: and they shall never perish" and "him that cometh to Me I will in no wise cast out" (John 10:28; John 6:37).

Since your new life didn't depend on your works in the first place, it is so secure that even if you were to commit suicide, as King Saul did in the Old Testament, you will still be saved. It doesn't depend on whether you are a success or not. If you were lost, then God failed, because salvation is a work of God. "For He that hath begun a good work in you will perform it to the end" (Philippians 1:6); for ye are God's workmanship (Ephesians 2:10).

Works vs. grace

The most raging religious controversy the world has ever known has always been between the do-it-yourself religions and the God-alone-can-save-you kind. In fact, this was the biggest church fight among the early Christians: whether you could just believe and be saved, or didn't you have to keep the law, too, to make it? "Sure, we believe that Jesus is the Messiah," they said, "but we still have to help Him save us by keeping the old law." This obnoxious mixture of works and grace so nauseated Paul that he bawled Peter out publicly for it, and spent most of his years fighting it in epistle after epistle. And he really summed up God's views on the subject when he said, "If righteousness comes by the law, then Christ is dead in vain" (Galatians 2:21). In other words, if you can be saved by just keeping the law, why did Jesus have to die anyway? Therefore he said, "If it is by grace then is it no more of works; otherwise grace (or mercy) is no more grace" (Romans 11:6).

You haven't got anybody's righteousness except Christ's, and He's the only one that can give it to you! Your own righteousness stinks. It's filthy rags (Isaiah 64:6). And that's all there is to that--nothing else, no other way, no righteousness of your own, none of your own good works, none of these can keep you saved any more than they can save you in the first place. Only Jesus can do it. He not only saves you, but He also does the works through you--and it's all Jesus--none of your own self or your own self-righteousness--just Jesus. Paul said that "Christ is the end of the law for righteousness, to every one that believeth" (Romans 10:4). In other words, receiving Jesus Christ as your Savior and following His Spirit, this is the only law that justifies you--none of the others count.

However, real faith motivates works, so don't hand me any of that stuff about a free, no-works religion. We're sure not saved by our works, but if we're saved we'll sure work like everything to give it to others, and it'll cost you a lot! Because Jesus said, "He that forsaketh not all that he hath cannot be My disciple" (Luke 14:33).

Your heavenly rewards are also based on services rendered to God's kingdom while in this life. When Jesus said, "Beware lest any man steal thy crown" (Revelation 3:11), He wasn't referring to your salvation. The crown is your reward, given only to winners--only to those who run, and win, the race of good works, not salvation.

In the case of mistakes, failures, and those who fall away from the faith, you should remember the case of the prodigal son: Although he lost his birthright and inheritance, he did not completely lose his place as a son at the Father's table. The Lord doesn't lose His children! They may go back for a while, but they'll often return when they have gone through the Lord's wise chastening and sometimes bitter experiences. "As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten" (Revelation 3:19).

Universal reconciliation

I'm looking forward to the day--and this may be shocking for some people--when everybody or almost everybody will be saved. At least there won't be many left in hell, if any.

The work is not even over in heaven, or in the Heavenly City after the Millennium (the thousand-year reign of Christ on earth). We'll still be serving God, and quite a few things will not be finished yet: total redemption, universal reconciliation, cosmic restitution. All of which Paul spoke about and are also recorded in the book of Revelation, but won't have even happened completely by the time you arrive in the Heavenly City. There'll still be kings and nations who will yet need healing. "In the midst of the street ... was there the tree of life ... and the leaves were for the healing of the nations" (Revelation 22:2).

How to receive new life

To get the real thing, all you have to do is receive Jesus, God's Son, as your Savior by asking Him into your heart! You can do it right now if you want to by simply praying the following childlike prayer:

Dear Lord, please forgive me for my selfish life. Thank You so much for sending Jesus, Your Son, to take my punishment for me. I now receive Him as my Savior and Your Son, and ask Him to come into my heart and help me to be good and love You and others by Your Spirit. Help me to read Your Word, obey it, and do my best to help others. In Jesus' name, amen.

Every time of testing and trial and sifting is a time of decision. Now how do you make a decision? For a Christian, what is a decision? What are you trying to find? The will of God! So the question is: How do you find the will of God? Can you think of any good scriptures on the will of God?

The first one that comes to my mind is, "I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may know what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God" (Romans 12:1-2).

So what is the first requirement in finding God's will? Having no will of your own. Surrender your will, your body, your mind to the Lord. You say, "I thought you said that everybody has free will, free choice?" Sure, up to the point of decision. But as Christians you're supposed to have already made that major decision. What is that? I choose Jesus. You're supposed to have already chosen to surrender your will to Jesus Christ and let Him make the decisions.

He knows, He loves, He cares,
Nothing His truth can dim.
He gives His very best to those
Who leave the choice with Him.[1]
That may not be a scripture, but it's scriptural--one of my favorite little poems. "He knows, He loves, He cares"--do you believe that? "Nothing His truth can dim"--is that true?

"He gives his very best to those who leave the choice with Him." If you're His child and you're letting Him do the choosing, what's He going to choose for you? He's going to choose that which is the best for you, which will make you happy, right?

But you say, "Yes, but my will is surrendered to God. I have yielded my life to the Lord. I am trusting the Lord, but I still haven't been able to find His will. I'm still confused. I can't even understand the problem, much less the answer!"

If you don't know where to go or how to do it, just get out and start, and He'll lead you. The boat has to be in motion before the rudder can take effect.

How do you find the will of God? What's the first requirement, according to that scripture? That scripture includes three things: Surrender your body, surrender your mind, and obviously, your will. When these are all utterly surrendered to God, God may make you wait a little while sometimes, to find out. But you'll keep busy while you're waiting!

I never in my life, God help me, just sat around waiting on God--not for long, that's for sure. We may stand around here for a few minutes waiting for God to speak, but I never sat around for weeks and months on end. God isn't that slow! He doesn't have that hard a time telling me what to do. Thank God, I'm not that deaf that I don't know when He speaks, and have that hard a time hearing Him and finding out what He wants me to do.

So finding God's will is not just sitting around doing nothing. Keep busy, stay active!

"Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might" (Ecclesiastes 9:10). The trouble with some people is that they don't find anything to do because they're not even looking. In fact, they've got their eyes shut and they're sound asleep and they don't want to see anything to do.

How to find the will of God? Utter abandonment, utter yieldedness to God--utter yieldedness of the mind, utter yieldedness of the body, utter yieldedness of your own will. Then you'll know. You won't have long to wait when you really have no desires of your own.

I asked some folks last night, "If you had your choice to do anything you want to do for God, or even not for God, what would you do?" "Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Matthew 6:21). What do you want to do? What really is your choice?

I'm doing exactly what I want to do, what I love to do, and what I know is God's will. I'm right where I belong. I can't think of anything I would like to do better.

The first place we look for the will of God is where? The Word. This is the known, sure, absolute, revealed will of God. This you don't have to doubt at all. This is it! If God never tells you another thing, if you just work according to the Bible, you'll get along great.

If you never get a revelation, if you never hear a voice, if you never hear a tongue, if you never get a prophecy, if you never have knowledge, if you never have wisdom, if you never have discernment, if you never have healing, if you never have miracles, if you'll just operate according to this Word of God, you'll accomplish a whole lot. And you'll probably get all the rest in the bargain, while you're at it.

The seven ways to know the will of God, seven ways to find the will of God: Number one, by the Word of God. Next, by the voice of His Word. What is the voice of His Word?

Have you ever had Him speak directly to you with the voice of His Word? You're reading a passage and all of a sudden some verse or word just--pow!--hits you like that between the eyes. "Wow! That's for me. That's the answer." It was so loud that God couldn't have spoken any more emphatically if He'd yelled it out or screamed it in your ear.

The voice of His Word speaking through the Word. It may have been written for somebody 6,000 years ago, and yet, all of a sudden, it hits you personally, between the eyes. The Holy Spirit grabbed ahold of that arrow and pulled back His bow and whang!--it cut you to the heart. The voice of His Word! "Bless the Lord, ye His angels, that excel in strength, that do His commandments, hearkening unto the voice of His Word" (Psalm 103:20).

First the Bible, then a specific verse out of the Bible. What do you think would be next, as an indication of the will of God? A direct revelation--a dream, vision, voice, message, prophecy, interpretation.

Sometimes He speaks through one particular verse, just to you personally, by His Spirit. Sometimes He speaks to you directly, even outside of this book. I've found He usually uses scripture. Whenever I ask God for an answer to a problem, I seldom ever have God fail to give me a scripture that He's already got in here some place.

What more can He say, than to you He hath said?
To you who for refuge to Jesus have fled.
How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord,
Is laid for your faith, in His excellent Word.[2]
Some of you don't appreciate the Bible as you should. You've got to have it all spoon-fed. You don't know how to dig it out for yourself--the strong meat of the Word. Some things you've got to work for. "Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the Word of truth" (2 Timothy 2:15).

Be sure that direct revelation does not contradict but is in line with the Word of God. You have to measure it. "Try the spirits" (1 John 4:1). Make sure it is according to His Word, direct revelation from God Himself.

His Word, the voice of His Word, direct revelation, what next? "In the multitude of counselors there is safety" (Proverbs 11:14). Godly counselors, number four.

His Word through godly counselors--those who not only claim to believe the Bible, but whom you see are really practicing it the way you know it ought to be done.--Those who not only are hearers of the Word, but doers also (James 1:22).

If I wanted to know how to play the piano, I wouldn't go to business college. I'd go to a pianist who knows how to play. If I wanted to know how to cook, I wouldn't go to a stenographer--I'd go to somebody who knows how to cook, whose meals I've enjoyed. Godly counselors that bear fruit and produce the goods and you know they mean business.

I don't say that these have to be in this exact order. God may speak to you out loud first, and then you may confirm it with the Word. You may hear the voice of His Word next, and then search the rest of the Scripture and see what He generally has to say about the subject.

What would you make number five? Circumstances. A very poor judge of the will of God, but sometimes an indication. Some people have called this open and closed doors.

Which way does God seem to be leading? Where do you have open doors of service? Where have you got a possibility of a job? Which direction does it seem that God is providing the way and the means? That's one way to find out--the circumstances and the conditions, the open and shut doors.

What would you take next? To know what God's will isn't? That's a pretty good point, but a hard way to find out. I'd make that number eight, while I've just boiled this down to seven. But if you can't find the will of God, go ahead and do something. You will soon find out whether it is or is not! As the old lady said, "I may not know what unction is, but I sure know when it ain't!"

That leads us to number six--the witness of the Spirit; burdens, some people call it. It's kind of a feeling; I don't like to go by feeling, but that may be one of the indications. Sometimes it can be wrong. It can be the wrong feeling from the wrong spirit.

But if it's of the Spirit of God, you'll have an inner conviction--the witness of the Spirit. In your heart you feel you just have faith. You'll just know that's the will of God. You have conviction that that's what you are supposed to do. That still small voice in your heart--maybe not out loud, not an audible, visible sign of some kind, but that still small voice in your heart--that inner conviction (1 Kings 19:12).

The warning of the Holy Spirit or the checking of the Holy Spirit: "Stop, don't do it! Watch out!" Sometimes the Holy Spirit screams so loud in your heart, you don't hear a thing with these ears, but you know what He means.

Sometimes you can specify the kind of revelation you want, and this we call a fleece. Gideon laid one out and said, "Now Lord, if the fleece is wet and the ground's dry, then I know it's You talking to me." But then he wanted to make doubly sure. He said, "Lord, if the fleece is dry and the ground is wet, I'll believe it." And it came that way. (See Judges 6:36-40.) You say, "Now Lord, if You'll do so-and-so"--as I did when I walked in here: I said, "Now Lord, if I open up right to that passage, then I know that's what they need, and that's what I'm going to give them."

I like to get a sign from the Lord that I'm on the right track. That's one way to find the will of God--ask for a sign, for a fleece, some indication.

How to find the will of God? Surrender your bodies as a living sacrifice, that ye may know what is that good and acceptable will of God. Be not conformed to this world and its systems and its usual way of doing things, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind--not the old way, if you're going to accomplish anything (Romans 12:1-2).

"That ye may know"--you'll know. There'll be no doubt about it. If you do something without knowing it's God's will, it's sin. "For whatsoever is not of faith is sin" (Romans 14:23).

My mother [Virginia Brandt Berg] used to say, "When in doubt, don't." That's scriptural! "For he that doubteth is damned if he eat" (Romans 14:23). That means he's judged, not lost. He's punished because he went ahead and did something he wasn't sure was the will of God.--Without knowing he was right.

Know you're right, then go ahead. Nothing short of right is right. For "the double-minded man is unstable in all his ways, like the waves of the sea when they cannot rest. Think not that that man shall receive anything from the Lord" (James 1:6-8).

Choose ye this day whom ye shall serve: If God be God, then serve Him. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord

When Jesus' disciples went out from Jerusalem to the Mount of Olives and asked Him, "What shall be the sign of Thy coming and of the end of the world?" He didn't reply with only one sign, but with dozens (Matthew 24:3). In fact, His Word is full of specific "signs of the times"--signs of the last days, of the endtime, signs that you should look out for and expect, so that you will know when you are near the end, how near the end you are, and what is going to happen at the very end.

He has been quite generous in His revelations of the future. He has specified what the various endtime events will be and has even given us approximate timeframes leading up to the very end, which will climax in the Antichrist reign before the Second Coming of the true Christ, followed by the idyllic age of the thousand-year reign of Jesus Christ here on earth, the kingdom of God on earth, all of which we will cover in detail in later chapters of this book. But for now, let's examine some of the specific biblical predictions and prophecies regarding conditions and events during the last days of man's current rule on earth, as foreseen by God's prophets thousands of years ago.

"And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars: see that ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places. All these are the beginning of sorrows" (Matthew 24:6-8). We've had these things for two millenniums since Jesus was here. He said they're only the "beginning of sorrows."

Although the world had never been completely free from war prior to 1914, until then, war had never been so widespread. From 1914 to 1918, with World War I, a world war was waged, and then again from 1939-1945, with World War II. In the latter, only 12 small nations of the earth were not actually or technically involved, and altogether 93 million people served in the armed forces of both sides. At the 21st session of the International Red Cross in 1969, it was reported that more than 90 million people had been killed in wars since the twentieth century began, over trillion had been spent on arms, and 130 conflicts on five continents had been waged.

"And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come" (Matthew 24:14). Never has the gospel been preached in all the world to all nations as much as it is being preached right now. If not directly by missionaries, travelers, and visitors, it is certainly being preached by the modern mediums of radio, television, and printed literature [and now the Internet].

The modern means of communication and transportation that make the fulfilment of the preceding prophecy evident bring to mind another prediction regarding conditions in the last days, given to the prophet Daniel in 534 B.C.: "But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end: many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased" (Daniel 12:4). Here the Lord is telling His prophet, who had just received some of the most detailed, specific, descriptive prophecies regarding the one-world Antichrist government in the entire Bible, "Daniel, I'm giving this vision to you, but it's not for you. It's not for your time and it's not for your people. It's for an endtime when many shall run to and fro and knowledge shall be increased."

People's means of travel--horse and buggy, wagons, camels, sailboats, etc.--hadn't changed for thousands of years until just a little over 100 years ago. Until then, man still traveled in the same fashion that Adam traveled. He walked or rode an animal or something pulled by an animal. But in this very short period of time, mankind has advanced from a state little different from Adam's to one in which a man not only drives at enormous speeds, but flies and even goes to the moon and beyond.

People travel more today than they ever traveled before. International tourism is a huge business, with millions of people traveling outside their own countries every year throughout the world. Cars today can travel at up to 300 mph, planes at 2,000 mph, and spaceships at 100,000 mph. A jet can fly around the world in 58 hours, a spacecraft can circle the world in 80 minutes, and in less than one second a radio message can reach the ends of the earth!

2,600 years ago another prophet actually foresaw, "in the days of the Lord's preparation" (before He returns), our modern highways and their racing, raging automobiles: "The chariots shall be with flaming torches in the day of His preparation, and the fir trees shall be terribly shaken. The chariots shall rage in the streets, they shall jostle one against another in the broad ways: they shall seem like torches, they shall run like the lightnings" (Nahum 2:3-4).

Imagine this prophet seeing a vision of future highways, our superhighways, and scores of cars speeding along with their headlights on at nighttime! Cars at night with their headlights must have looked like lightning to him. And they certainly jostle one another in the broad ways. Thousands of people are killed every year in auto accidents from this jostling.

"And knowledge shall be increased." More has been discovered by science in the last 100 years than had been discovered or invented in the previous 6,000 years. Knowledge has been increased within this past hundred years almost beyond imagination, but much of the world still toils to try to scrape together enough to eat.

"Knowledge" has "increased," but without God and without His Word, what good is it all if people have no purpose in life and no love of God and fellow man? Unwittingly, they've fulfilled another prophecy about the latter days: "This know also, in the last days, men shall be ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth" (2 Timothy 3:1,7).

By abandoning God, the Bible, and Christianity, and putting nothing in its place, life becomes just a meaningless, chaotic process of evolution! If there's no God, then there's no ruler. And if there's no ruler, then there are no rules. And if there are no rules or laws, then nothing is either right or wrong. Chief Justice Fred Vinson of the U.S. Supreme Court summed things up perfectly when he said, "Nothing is more certain in modern society than the principle that there are no absolutes." You cannot have any kind of order without some kind of moral basis, a code of conduct, a sense of right and wrong, of good and evil, of what's right to do and what you shouldn't do.

Things are not going to get better and better, as evolution purports. The Bible predicts just the opposite. "In the last days, evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving, and being deceived" (2 Timothy 3:1,13). In fact, Jesus Himself said that "as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be" (Matthew 24:37). In the days of Noah, the world was so bad that God was sorry He had even made it--sorry He had even made man. It says in Genesis, "And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence" (Genesis 6:5, 11).

"And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold" (Matthew 24:12). With today's selfish and self-indulgent "me generation," this prophecy by Jesus about the endtime is being fulfilled. Another passage of scripture regarding this is found in 2 Timothy 3:

"This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truce-breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God" (2 Timothy 3:1-4).

Abortion is one of the major sins of this generation. God says, "In thy skirts is found the blood of the souls of the poor innocents: I have not found it by secret search, but upon all these" (Jeremiah 2:34). Such people today are not only "without natural affection," but they have no respect for the sanctity of life, the holiness of life, God-given life, and are taking the lives of babies while they're still in the stomachs of their mothers.

"And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring" (Luke 21:25). The peoples of the earth are likened unto the sea and the waves in the Bible (Isaiah 57:20-21). So here Jesus is speaking symbolically of the peoples and nations of the world--their wars and rumors of wars and riots and terrorism--the waves of their various wars and conflicts and uprisings.

Is this happening today? Every time you turn on the television, it roars. Every time you turn on the radio, you can hear the waves of a new war roaring, a new riot, a new rebellion, a new revolution, more terrorism, more strikes--the sea of the peoples of the earth, roaring in the last days.

"And men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth" (Luke 21:26). Do you know what is one of the greatest causes of death in the Western world today? Heart failure. I can remember, when I was younger, the days when people were not living in fear and terror. They might have been living in poverty and destitution and sometimes they might have been hungry, but they didn't live in fear of getting murdered on the street or of being annihilated with an atom bomb in a nuclear war. But the atomic bomb put a pin in their balloon and created one of the world's greatest problems: the awesome specter of a nuclear holocaust and the world's most horrendous war.

Another prediction regarding the endtime has to do with the interest in the occult, psychic phenomena, spiritism, demonology, and witchcraft which the world is experiencing. "Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils; speaking lies in hypocrisy, having their conscience seared with a hot iron" (1 Timothy 4:1-2). There have been all kinds of weird religions attracting wide followings, particularly among the youth. In their pursuit of genuine spirituality, many young people have gone into ancient mysticism, drugs, and the occult.

Another major sign of the very end predicted in the Bible is regarding a one-world government, led by a powerful superhuman anti-Christ dictator, which is going to arise in the last days of man's rule on earth just before Christ returns to take over. The world's going to have to have a tough dictator to rule a tough people! When lawlessness becomes rampant, it will be necessary to have a really tough totalitarian dictatorship to get things under control.

Regarding this soon-coming anti-Christ dictator, the apostle Paul wrote: "Now we beseech you by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto Him, that ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, as that the day of Christ is at hand. (He said that then, 2,000 years ago.) Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day (of Christ's Second Coming) shall not come, except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition; who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God" (2 Thessalonians 2:1-4).

In the book of Revelation, this Antichrist and his government are referred to as a "beast," whom all the world will wonder after and finally worship (Revelation 13). Everything that was prophesied in the Bible about all the various world empires down through history has all come true, so we know this last government of man will also come to pass. According to scriptures which we will study in detail later in this book, the Antichrist will reign for seven years: The first half will be a more or less general world peace as he consolidates his power and establishes his kingdom, and the second half will be 3½ years of "great tribulation" such as the world has never known.

The Bible gives us several specific glimpses into this final one-world government's policies and methods to help us recognize it when it arrives. The scriptures show that he will make a seven-year pact or covenant of compromise and religious freedom in Jerusalem, and give the Jewish people permission to rebuild their temple in Jerusalem. But exactly 3½ years after he has confirmed this religious covenant, he suddenly breaks the agreement and wants everybody to worship him as God or be killed. At that point he places the "abomination of desolation in the holy place," which apparently is his image or idol erected in the rebuilt temple area in Jerusalem (Matthew 24:15).

Jesus Himself said that when you shall see this Antichrist's image, this abomination of desolation standing in the Jewish temple area, then will begin the last 3½ years of man's rule on earth, a time of "great tribulation." That's going to be the first sign that you're nearing the very end, the last 42 months of this age, and you'll know that you're only 3½ years from the coming of Jesus! He says that then shall begin the Great Tribulation, the last 3½ years of man's history, the last half of the seven-year reign of the Antichrist. Jesus said that after that tribulation, you'll then see the sign of the coming of the Lord in the air.

"Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken. And then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And He shall send His angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together His elect (His church) from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other" (Matthew 24:29-31). Hallelujah! The glorious Second Coming of Jesus Christ to resurrect and rapture His own!

In the next verse of this beautiful, prophetic, "signs of the end" chapter of Matthew 24, Jesus very simply and plainly tells us more about how we can tell when these final, tremendous, earthshaking events are about to happen: "Now learn a parable of the fig tree; when his branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh: So likewise ye, when ye shall see all these things, know that it is near, even at the doors" (Matthew 24:32-33). He said that just as you see the blossoms of the trees and the flowers and you know that summer is coming soon, so you'll know that His Coming is near when you see these different events which we've covered here come to pass. You say, "Most of them don't sound like blossoms and flowers to me! They sound more like thorns and thistles and briars and horrors." Not for us who love Jesus.

To us, all of these signs are flowers and blossoms and beautiful fulfilments of his prophecies and signs of His soon-coming--signs of the summer that is near, of the beautiful golden age, the springtime of the coming of Jesus and the springing up of His flowers from the earth, "the dead in Christ that shall rise first" (1 Thessalonians 4:16)--the Resurrection. Spring is like a resurrection! Throughout the winter it seems as if everything is dead, but as it grows warmer day by day, life begins to spring from the earth. That which seemed to be dead arises and there's a resurrection of the earth in the springtime.

"And when these things begin to come to pass"--when you see these things happen, even when they begin to come to pass, what does He tell us to do? "Then look up, and lift up your heads." Don't be discouraged; don't look down! Don't do what Peter did; don't look down at the waves and start to sink. "And lift up your heads, for your redemption"--your salvation--"draweth nigh" (Luke 21:28).

When all these terribly bad things begin to happen, start looking up, because Jesus is coming soon! "So likewise ye, when ye shall see all these things, know that it is near, even at the doors. Verily I say unto you, this generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled" (Matthew 24:33-34). He wasn't talking to His disciples back then, 2,000 years ago, because they didn't see all these things being fulfilled. The generation that sees all these things will not pass away till all these things are fulfilled.

Many people never seem to sense impending doom or things that are about to happen until it's too late. It reminds me of what Jesus said to the Scribes and Pharisees: "Ye can discern the face of the sky, but can ye not discern the signs of the times?" (Matthew 16:3).

Most people just still go on, business as usual. Unwittingly, they themselves become a fulfilment of another prophecy about the latter days: "Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of His Coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation" (2 Peter 3:3-4). In other words, "There's no danger! Business as usual."

Just like Jesus said about the days of Noah, "They ate and drank, married and were given in marriage, and knew not until the flood came and swept them all away, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be" (Matthew 24:37-39). Most people today are just going on, business as usual. "Oh, they've been preaching this business about Jesus coming for centuries, and He hasn't come yet." He is coming, and you'd better be prepared by having Him in your heart and believing in Him, or you're apt to be swept away with the rest of the scoffers and procrastinators in the judgments of God that are going to be poured out after Jesus returns.

Noah preached to those unbelieving people of that wicked world for 120 years before the flood, and they never repented! They were probably waiting to see if it was really going to rain, if it was really going to happen, then maybe they'd climb on board with him. In the meantime, they laughed, sneered, jeered and persecuted him and his sons as they worked on that ship for 120 years. Then Noah and his family finally went in, and it says that God shut the door so that nobody else could enter (Genesis 7:16). And by the time it started to rain and rain and rain and began to flood, it was too late for that wicked generation, who were left behind to drown in the flood of their own iniquity!

The only hope is Jesus. He said, "I am the way, the truth, and the life: No man cometh unto the Father but by Me" (John 14:6). He loves you and will forgive your sins and give you His love, His joy and His peace if you will just humble yourself and pray, asking Him into your heart. So receive Jesus today and prepare for His Coming by serving Him and telling others about His love, so that He may say to you, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant: enter thou into the joy of thy Lord" (Matthew 25:21).

There is hardly anything that can be enjoyed in a hurry--a glass of wine, a walk, a talk, a ride, a view, a meal, or an embrace. God is hardly ever in a hurry. It takes Him time to make a baby, a flower, a tree, a sunset--or even a blade of grass. He is hardly ever in a hurry. He hardly ever does anything suddenly.

The sea is always peaceful, quiet, slow, and leisurely, except when there's a storm.

Speed kills. Haste makes waste. Patience takes faith. If you're in a hurry, you miss things, lose things, forget things, and wear out quickly. You live it up, but you might not be able to live it down. You marry in haste, but repent at leisure. You save a minute, but lose a life. You are penny-wise, but pound-foolish.

If you go slow, you get there quicker--at least you get there. Better late than never. Better safe than sorry. If you stop to look before you leap, you may not have to leap at all. A miss is as good as a mile. It takes time to aim straight.

In the army we had targets that moved, or were there just for a moment and then disappeared. Some of the boys were in such a hurry to shoot, for fear it would disappear, they missed it altogether. But I waited until I was sure I could hit the bull's-eye and made "sharpshooter"--an expert rifleman with nine out of ten in competition. Some were in such a hurry, they got so excited their rifles waved around, and they jerked the trigger so quick it jerked the whole rifle and caused them to miss the mark. Sin is missing the mark. I took time to rest my elbow firmly, hold my rifle securely, aim accurately, and squeeze the trigger slowly. Squeeze--don't jerk--or you'll miss something!

Rome wasn't built in a day. The Lord told me once that it takes time to build a house. Once when I was in a big hurry to do something, to know something, to make a decision, He said, "First, you must lay the foundation solidly, then lay brick upon brick and stone upon stone firmly with mortar, each piece fitting accurately; and you cannot do this in a hurry, or you'll have a wall that will crumble. Then, over all, the roof must be laid securely, beam upon beam, rafter upon rafter, tile upon tile. Then come the plasterers; then the painters; and finally the finishers, hanging windows and doors, placing ceilings and floors. Then at last you have a building fitly joined together--a beautiful sight to see, a well-made structure built slowly and well to last."

But I've seen some buildings thrown up in a hurry, as some crooked contractors used to joke, "Long enough to get out of them before they fall." I saw thousands of these demolished in the Great Miami Hurricane. Thousands of people were killed by faulty, hastily built construction that could not stand the wind of adversity.

You can have peace even in the midst of storm, if you know you are secure and at rest in a safe building--strong, solid, well built, unmoved by the wildest gale. A good building doesn't get up and run away. It's not blown away by the storm; it just sits tight until it blows over.

We were in a hurry to get home to do our writing, but instead we sat down on a lovely rock wall by a busy street to enjoy the view for a moment when we got this inspiration.

While sitting there, a large group of young Sabra children of grade-school age stopped curiously to ask who we were, where we were from, what we were doing, and to eagerly give us their names, chat in their broken English, and ask how we like Israel. We said, "Israel is beautiful, you are beautiful, the weather is beautiful, and God is beautiful," and they smiled and laughed and were pleased and bade us a cheery good-bye, as the couple dozen of them moved on. If we had been in a hurry and had not taken time to sit down to enjoy the view, we would have missed this interesting experience of the charming, warm, friendliness of these young Israelis.

The wicked hastens to sin with his tongue, and with his feet, and with his hands. But we are to wait upon the Lord. He that waits upon the Lord shall renew his strength--instead of wearing out (Isaiah 40:31). "Thou shalt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on Thee, because he trusteth in Thee" (Isaiah 26:3). They that believe have entered into rest. "He giveth His beloved rest" (Psalm 127:2).

Rest in the Lord. Patience takes faith. "Tribulation worketh patience" (Romans 5:3), because it compels you to trust the Lord, to have faith in God for the outcome.

The wicked are like the troubled sea when it cannot rest. "There is no peace, saith the Lord, for the wicked" (Isaiah 57:20-21, 48:22). They are tossed to and fro and they cannot rest. "But there remaineth a rest for the children of God" (Hebrews 4:9).

Squeeze--don't jerk--or you'll miss something, and missing the mark of God is sin.

When Moses was in a hurry to deliver the children of God, he killed the Egyptian and had to flee for his life (Exodus 2:11-15). But after 40 years of patiently, humbly, tending sheep in the wilderness, with time to listen to the voice of God instead of his own impulses, he was ready for the slow, laborious, patient work of the Exodus--slow, but sure (Acts 7:30-36).

The hare never made it, but the tortoise did.

Then 40 days and nights on the mountain and Moses heard from God, but in one split second of anger, he broke all Ten Commandments and had to go back and spend another 40 days; his haste took him twice as long (Exodus 24:18, 32:15-19, 34:1,28).

My wife used to say to me on the way to some meeting or appointment, "Now, honey, we don't have time for any of your shortcuts," because she knew what usually happened when I started cutting across country trying to find a quicker way: We usually got lost entirely and wound up later than ever!

Squeeze--don't jerk--or you'll miss the mark--and that's sin.

Sometimes my wife gets very impatient with me, because I don't answer her immediately when she asks me a question. But it takes time to think and pray, to be sure you give the right answer. Anybody can shoot off his mouth immediately, but is he really saying anything? Be slow to speak and slow to anger (James 1:19). Go slow; take your time--you'll enjoy it more, even lovemaking. You'll get more out of life.

My father used to sing a little ditty, "Never let yourself get worried, hurried, or flurried, or else you'll find yourself getting harried, married, or buried."

Squeeze--don't jerk--or you'll miss the mark--and that's sin.

"Go to the ant, thou sluggard" (Proverbs 6:6), but it takes time even to study the busy little antics of the ant, to learn anything from him.

"Be not slothful, but diligent in business" (Romans 12:11). The sloth hangs there all day on the limb with his eyes shut, sleeping, scarcely moving, till he looks like part of the tree. He's not just slow--he acts like he's dead. When on the firing line, I was neither hasty nor did I forget to fire altogether, but I took reasonable time to aim straight and squeeze, not jerk.

Be temperate in all things (1 Corinthians 9:25). "Let your moderation be known to all men" (Philippians 4:5). Don't run too fast, lest you stumble, and don't just sit there. Do something, but walk circumspectly.

Squeeze--don't jerk--or you may miss the mark--and that's a sin!
The Lord is trying to teach you to make decisions. One of the main principles involved in reaching a decision is: Don't start talking--pray. God likes you to give Him a little honor. Prayer is not just getting down on your knees and speaking your piece, but it's letting God speak His, too.--And waiting until He answers. You've got to get not only in prayer, but you've got to get in the Spirit. And if you do, He'll tell each one of you what you're supposed to do.

You need to learn to talk to the Lord, and how to listen most of all. It's not up to the King to try to go chasing His subjects around screaming and hollering at them to try to get them to do what He wants. You come to Him with quietness and respect, and you sincerely and in trembling present your petition, and you wait silently to get the answer. You have to fear, respect, and reverence the Lord, and treat Him like the king He is. I think sometimes Spirit-filled people can become so familiar with the Spirit and the Lord that sometimes familiarity breeds contempt. The Lord is so sweet and so close to you, you don't respect Him like you ought to.

Unless we know by faith that we're doing the right thing, even if we are doing the right thing, it is a sin--because we're not sure it's right. "Whatsoever is not of faith is sin" (Romans 14:23). Some of the old-line denominations know more about prayer than you do. We get so busy with Bible prophecy, witnessing, memorizing, etc., but if you don't know how to pray, you've got the letter of the law rather than the Spirit. I don't care how many gifts you have--if you don't keep in touch with the Lord all the time, you're in trouble.

But you don't have to be down on your hands and knees praying frantically to be heard. Prayer is something you're doing all the time, no matter what else you're doing. You can't wait until you're through doing this or that, and then pray. It's like thinking on your feet.

I once asked my grandfather what the secret of his speaking success was, and he said, "I just get so full of my subject beforehand, and when I get in front of the audience I speak right out of my heart." That's the secret of prayer. When did he fill his heart? He filled his mind and heart with the things he needed to know before he got up to speak. "Out of the fullness of the heart, the mouth speaketh" (Matthew 12:34). Fill up your heart and you won't have any trouble knowing what to say, or what to do.

There are times you're in action and you can't get quiet; you've got to pray as you go. It's like the soldier preparing for battle--there had better be a quiet time. Any soldier in his right mind is going to pray before and during the battle. But in the Lord's battle, you're going to get most of your tactics ahead of time. Like Patton--I believe he got most of his inspiration from the Lord. He ran largely by inspiration. He'd plan way ahead what his tactics and strategy were going to be. Then during the battle, sometimes he'd make split-second decisions and change plans. But mostly it was just like he had found out ahead of time.

I don't see how you can hear the Lord when you're making so much racket. Clear back in Huntington Beach I talked to you about this. I said, "You guys remind me of Samuel in reverse. When he heard the Lord in the quiet of the night, he said, 'Speak, Lord, Thy servant heareth!' (1 Samuel 3:9). But the way most people pray is, 'Hear, Lord, thy servant speaketh.'"

Many Christians are more concerned in having God hear what they have to say than they are in hearing what God has to say. They're trying to put their program across on God and get Him to sign His name to their program. I heard someone say one time, "Are you willing, not to present your program to God for His signature, not even to be presented with God's program for you for your signature--but are you willing to sign a blank sheet of paper and let God fill it in without your even knowing what His program is going to be?"

All this running around and machinery--if you don't look out, if you keep this up, you'll be just like the little girl said about the kitty: "Mama, the kitty's gone to sleep and left its engine running!" You may run around and still be asleep spiritually, and you may not be getting anywhere--"as one that beateth the air" (1 Corinthians 9:26).

Unless you get quiet and try to seek the Lord, how are you ever going to get anything from the Lord? I'm fully convinced I've gotten more from the Lord alone and quiet than any other way. Because He can talk to you alone, and you can give Him your full attention and the reverence due Him--and you're listening. If you're in a room full of people and the TV is on--if they keep raising their voices and drowning out the TV--no matter how loud the volume is, you won't get what it has to say. And the Lord, unlike TV, will just shut up if you don't listen.

You ought to read what it has to say in the Bible. Anybody can make a racket--anybody can dance, sing, scream "Jesus saves" and shout "Hallelujah." But it takes study to be quiet. You've got to really make an effort to be quiet.

I was a very quiet little boy--afraid of people, introverted, shy. Maybe that's why I heard so much from the Lord. I was always going around by myself alone, and I was always hearing all kinds of things. And I know now, it was the Lord Himself teaching me. I loved to be alone. Only in recent years have I learned to enjoy the fellowship of others.

I love to be alone with the Lord because you can hear God so clearly when you're alone and quiet. The Lord speaks in a still, small, very definite, very firm, but very loving voice--but if you're too noisy, you're not going to hear it.

You know, you can be alone out in the woods, and think you've got to go out to pray alone--but when you get there, you scream at the top of your voice. Well, you're alone, but defeating the purpose of being alone. You're yelling so loud, you can't hear the Lord. God's not deaf. You have to wait a while and see if He's going to answer your prayer: stop and be quiet and wait for the answer. You can be your own distraction.

If you really want to hear Him, He'll talk to you. The only time you can hear is when you sit down and get quiet. God doesn't usually scream. By the time God starts screaming at you, it's too late. When it gets to the point He has to yell over your racket to be heard by you, He's probably so mad, it's too late.

Lord help us to get quiet before Him and listen. If you don't have some quiet time with the Lord, I don't know how you can operate. I get most of my information from the Lord, alone in the quiet of the night when everything is absolutely still and it's completely without distraction. If I wake up in the night and can't go back to sleep, I usually figure that's what it's for. But if you can't sleep, maybe God wants you to pray. As soon as I get prayed up, I go right back to sleep.

Most of the things I get from the Lord, nobody knows I'm praying; it's just between me and the Lord. "Go into thy closet and shut the door, and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly" (Matthew 6:6). Now there's a time for public prayer, when you pray together in a group--a time to unite you hearts together before the Lord. And if the whole congregation will get quiet, God will even speak there.

In our early days in Huntington Beach, people could not believe it when they saw 50 people standing around holding hands in a circle, not even speaking a word--just waiting. We did this every day, and God answered, because we just stood there and insisted on hearing from Him. And believe me, He talked wonderfully! We used to get message after message through new converts. Some would walk in so full of the Spirit, prophesying--marvelous!

We'd have a class, then we'd pray--and prayer wasn't screaming at God. We'd hold hands and praise the Lord a little bit--prime the pump, please Him by praising Him--like coming before the King and salaaming, and then you stay on your knees, shut up, and see what He has to say. That's the way it usually works.

I think for you personally, it's a little dangerous to wait until things start stirring in the morning. You can't just depend on united prayer sessions. Sometimes there aren't any. You're going to have to get quiet by yourself--somewhere, somehow, sometime--if you're going to hear from the Lord.

You have to play it by ear, and it had better be your ear and the Lord's music. I guess to some Christians, playing it by ear means getting God's ear--trying to yell at God and shove their program across. I know very little. I just have to ask the Lord. And He's the one who has to tell you what to do.

If you just can't possibly get alone with the Lord sometimes, at least you can get quiet in a group and listen. How many quiet times do you have, studying to be quiet? "In quietness and confidence shall your strength be" (Isaiah 30:15). Do you know what "confidence" means? It's faith. The very fact that you keep quiet shows you have faith. It shows you're expecting God to do something, and not trying to do it yourself.

If you don't know what to do, stop everything. Get quiet and wait for God to do something. The worst thing in the world you can do is to keep on going when you don't know what to do. That was King Saul's mistake. It absolutely lost him the kingdom, because he kept right on moving even after he didn't know what to do. He figured he had to just keep busy and keep going no matter what.

Getting quiet before the Lord shows you have faith that God is going to handle the situation--that He's going to take care of things. It shows you trust the Lord. "Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on Thee, because he trusteth in Thee" (Isaiah 26:3). If you're not trusting, you're going to be in confusion all the time.

Here's a nice little poem for you:

When we're trusting, we're not heard to fret.
When we're fretting, we're not trusting yet.
If you're in a big stew, confused and worrying and fretting and fuming, you're not trusting. You don't have the faith you ought to have. Trusting is a picture of complete rest, peace and quiet of mind, heart, and spirit. The body may have to continue working, but your attitude and spirit are calm.

That's why you can have peace in the midst of storm--calm in the eye of the hurricane. I've told you about the picture that won the contest and illustrated peace. Most of the artists handed in quiet, calm, pastoral scenes--absolute total quiet. That's a form of peace. But the hardest kind of peace to have is the picture that won the award. That was a picture of this roaring, raging cataract--a river in all its foaming and fury. But on a little branch right above, overhanging the raging current, there was a beautiful little nest with a tiny bird sitting there, peacefully singing away in spite of the storm. That's when your faith gets tested: In the midst of the storm. Quietness is a sign of faith.

Good night, man! Moses had from two to six million people sitting out in the middle of the desert waiting on him, tearing their hair out, wondering, "What are we going to eat? What are we going to drink? Where are we going? What are we going to do?" And what does Moses do? He takes off for the top of the mountain and sits up there with the Lord for 80 days straight.

What if he had been fretting all the time. "What if something happens? I have to get back. What if Aaron makes a golden calf"--which he did. And when Moses did get upset and break the tablets, he had to go back and stay another 40 days to get quiet again. What good did it do for him to get upset--he just had to get quiet again to hear from the Lord. He might as well have come down and taken it quietly and calmly. It would have saved him another 40 days up there.

Jesus, on the eve of His ministry, goes out and, some people would say, wastes 40 days and nights in the wilderness by Himself, and it seemed like He spent much of the time with the Devil. He had to lick the Devil first. If you don't get alone with the Lord and lick the Devil first, you might as well forget it.

I wonder how much of that 120 years it took Noah to build the Ark, he spent praying. He must have spent some time, or he couldn't have gotten all those directions on how to build that boat. God probably gave him the exact specifications for every inch of the boat. It had never even rained before. But he just went calmly about his business building the Ark. He could have gotten feverish, thinking rain was coming any minute, and just slapped it together. But he went calmly along for 120 years working on that boat.

Good night, you'd think you were spending a lot of time preparing if you just spent 120 days at it! It sure showed Noah had faith.

That's why they say farmers make the best missionaries, because they don't expect everything in one day. They have a lot of patience in the long process of waiting for the plants to grow, or the animals to produce. The farmer just has to trust that the Lord will make them grow and not worry about it. God does the biggest part of the job. He sends the rain. He makes it grow. All the farmer is there for is to supervise things. If there's any picture of a quiet type of personality, it's the farmer. The city folks make fun of the farmers. But if the farmers didn't take it slow, they'd go crazy, like the city people. The farmer's motto is "Go slow"!

The farmer is a perfect example of faith and patience. That's why so few people want to live on the farm. Because it takes too much dependence on God. There's not much they can do--they have to leave it all up to God. They're moving off the farms in droves. God's too much in control. It's too quiet out there--they call it too dead--no action, they say. But if they would get up on the top of one of those hills, they'd hear a lot going on. Watch the storm, look at the trees, watch the animals, listen to the thunder. Usually the action is very quiet and doesn't make a lot of commotion.

Some people have to be in motion all the time--they've got to be doing something. And I think one reason is, they don't want to think. That's why they have so many amusements.

That's why cities are such a curse. They're totally man-made environments--hardly a blade of grass, and where you can't see the stars or the sun or moon or the sky. So people get entirely away from God. Screeching, screaming subways, and horrible noise of traffic. There's much more deafness among city children than country children, because they live in an atmosphere of constant noise.--Whereas country children have very keen hearing.

If you live in an atmosphere of spiritual and physical confusion, you'll develop a hardness against the voice of God, because you have to develop a deafness against all the noises around you. Then you can't even hear the Lord. But if you live in quiet and peace and calm and stillness, you'll find your ears really becoming very keen and sharp. We should take a lesson from the farmer. City people become dull of hearing and hardened of heart.

Think of the years Abraham spent out in the fields watching flocks. No wonder he heard from the Lord: He had time to listen. Lord forgive us. We get so busy. If you're too busy to pray, you're too busy. If you're too busy to get alone with God and pray, you're too busy. What if the servant said to the king, "I'm sorry, I can't come and listen to your orders today; I'm too busy out serving you".

The most important job you have is listening to the King--to stop, look and listen--or you're going to get run over! That's the greatest danger: all this feverish activity. This is the greatest temptation of workers for the Lord.

The following was a poem written by my mother:

First Place

I was longing to serve the Master,
But alas, I was laid aside
From the busy field of workers
In the harvest field so wide
They were few, yes, few in number
And I could not understand
Why I should be left inactive:
It was not as I had planned.
I was longing to serve the Master
And the need indeed was great.
For me it was easy to labor
But oh, it was hard to wait,
To lie quite still and be silent
While the song was borne to my ear
From the busy field of workers
In the harvest field so dear.
I was longing to serve, just to serve the Master,
But He led to a desert place
And there as we stopped and rested
His eyes looked down in my face,
So full of tender reproaching
They filled me with sad surprise.
Did He think I had grudged my service
Or counted it sacrifice?
Oh, Master, I long to serve, just to serve thee,
There are so few at the best,
Let me off to the fields, I pleaded,
I care not to stay and rest.
I knelt at His feet imploring,
I gazed in His face above.
My child, He said, don't you know
Your service is nothing without your love?
I was longing to serve, to serve my Master,
Oh, this was my one fond thought,
For this I was ever pleading
As His footstool in prayer I sought,
But there in that lonely desert
Apart from the busy scene
It dawned on me slowly and clearly
Where my great mistake had been.
My mind was so full of service, just service,
I had drifted from Him apart,
And He longed for the sweet communion,
That union of heart with heart.
Well, I sought and I found forgiveness,
While mine eyes with pain were dim.
And now, though His work is still precious,
The first place is kept for Him!

--Virginia Brandt Berg (1886-1968)
I'll never forget how we got away one time to actually hear from the Lord, to hear God speak through my mother. They had all kinds of confusion of tongues, but no interpreter. So we went up into the mountains to listen to the Lord. And they got to praying and shouting and talking in tongues, and on and on they went, and all of a sudden the Lord began to speak. He said something like: Behold the Bridegroom is at the door, and He has bestowed upon you the gifts, and you're so busy playing with them like toys, you have forgotten the Bridegroom. Like the father coming home with gifts for his children. The kids grab the presents, forget to kiss their father and greet him, and sit down on the floor and start playing with the toys.

There are a lot of Christians that do this very same thing--they start playing with the things of God and neglect God Himself. Or like that little story about the bedroom slippers: The little girl who took her fellowship time with her father to make him bedroom slippers for his birthday, and nearly broke his heart. God may appreciate the bedroom slippers you're making for Him, but He'd rather have you. And in fact, you'll probably make a hell of a mess out of them if you neglect Him.

One of the biggest lessons you're going to have to learn is to wait for the Lord to work. I know times when I didn't listen to the Lord, and the only way He could get me to look up was to get me flat on my back where that was the only direction I could look--straight up.

My mother used to give her testimony of getting so busy with the Lord's work that the Lord had to slap her down with a malignant cancer so she'd have to give Him her full attention.

God will not take second place even to His service. "Thou shalt have no other gods before Me; thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God" (Exodus 20:3,5). That is probably the greatest mistake of sincere Christians: to make a god of God's service. All this action, all this noise, beating the air, holding a service--and so little of God.

We used to sing this little song:

Let go and let God have His wonderful way.
Let go and let God have His way;
He'll fill with His Spirit and keep day by day.
Let go and let God have His way.
It's a lot easier for you to just let God do it. And you show you're letting go by getting quiet before the Lord. You show that you have faith by stopping your own activity and waiting for God to work. "Be still and know that I am God" (Psalm 46:10). "Study to be quiet" (1 Thessalonians 4:11). "In quietness and confidence shall your strength be" (Isaiah 30:15). "Let all the world keep silence before Him" (Habakkuk 2:20). There was even silence in heaven on occasion.

Someone just handed me this little poem:

I Didn't Have Time

I got up early one morning
And rushed right into the day.
I had so much to accomplish
That I didn't have time to pray.
Problems just tumbled about me
And heavier came each task.
"Why doesn't God help me?" I wondered.
He answered, "You didn't ask!"
I tried to come in to God's presence
I used all my keys at the lock.
God gently and lovingly chided,
"Why, child, you didn't knock!"
I wanted to see joy and beauty,
But the day toiled on, gray and bleak.
I wondered why God didn't show me.
He said, "But you didn't seek."
I woke up early this morning,
And paused before entering the day,
I had so much to accomplish
That I had to take time to pray!

--Author unknown
One day when Martin Luther and his co-worker Melanchthon had a particularly strenuous and busy day ahead, Melanchthon suggested that they cut their prayer time together at the beginning of the day in half. Luther refused vehemently, and insisted that instead of their regular two hours in prayer, they would today have to spend four hours in the presence of the Lord because they had so much to do!

When Moses was a real smart young man of 40 and really thought he knew how to do the job, he made a hell of a mess out of it, and he had to run for his life. It took God 40 years to straighten him out and show him he had to depend on Him.

Hurry is a sign you're afraid you're going to be late--which means you have fear, which means you haven't got faith. If you're late, take it easy. Trust the Lord. One reason we hurry when we're late is because it was probably our own fault and we don't want to have to suffer the consequences. That's pride. You don't want people to know you were really late.

Another reason you hurry is that you're not trusting the Lord. You're afraid if you don't get there, you're going to miss something. You can't trust God that He's able to hold up the whole world or stop the sun like Joshua had Him do.

I'll never forget when I was rushing around trying to get the train, and the Lord warned me that if I kept up this nervous and physical strain, I would kill myself. So I put it in the Lord's hands to stop the train, and I relaxed and took my time. After I got on the train I sat there for 40 minutes wondering why the always punctual train did not leave the station. I finally asked the Lord, and He told me, "You didn't tell Me you wanted to leave yet."

"The hurrier I go, the behinder I get." Just relax; slow down; don't rush; don't be hasty. Squeeze, don't jerk, and the Lord will slow everything else down for you if necessary. No use trying to kill yourself. You've got to learn to rest in the Lord--and take it easier.

Look at all the examples of patience in the Bible: Job, Moses, and David. David spent 24 years working under that old blunderbuss, King Saul, and the Lord really taught him from looking at Saul. Saul got uptight and tried to do things in his own strength, and he found he wasn't strong enough. David learned you have to let God do everything--and wait for Him.

But slow it down! Stop ... Look ... Listen. Wait for the Lord. Especially if you don't know what to do and haven't heard from the Lord yet.

Where did John the Baptist show up from--the big city of Jerusalem? Is that where he got his education, his anointing, his great power? No! He came out of the desert, out of the woods, out of the wilderness. So he'd have time to get away from the mob and hear from the Lord. And when he came, he sure had something to say.

Jesus spent 30 years of His life in preparation, and only a little over three years in His public ministry. We're in such a hurry. If we don't give our outgoing teams any other preparation, let's at least teach them how to get their orders from the Lord.

You don't hear much about John the Beloved, just a little about him being with the Lord, etc. John wrote the Gospel of John; it must have taken some time with the Lord to do it. But his greatest masterpiece, the book of Revelation, was written by the Lord in exile on an island. His biggest work was just letting God do all the directing and all the showing and the whole shebang. Let's slow it down. Stop ... Look ... Listen. Or you're going to get run over.

The world is always in a hurry. That's the Devil's own machinery: to speed up the world--anything to make everything move faster. God is never in a hurry. The world is still revolving the same rate every day since He created it. God hasn't speeded up the seasons or the years any. Man is speeding it up--hell-bent for destruction. Slow it down. Squeeze--don't jerk. But most of all, stop, look, listen, and wait. You see signs like this at dangerous places, crossings, intersections, places of crisis--an interruption of your routine, an interruption of your way, your road, your highway. Otherwise you might get out there and get hit by an express train.

But you say, "I don't have time to stop and to look and to listen." If you don't, you may never make it. Better late than never! Which is easier: to try to beat the train, to try to plow through the train, jump over the train, or just to stop, watch it go by, wait another couple of minutes and it'll be out of your way and you can go peacefully on your way? Trying to force the situation and push your way through just won't work.

I've found out that no matter what I do, the Lord's work will go on; life will go on. If it's God's work, nothing will stop it. Praise the Lord? So it doesn't pay to rush around and fret and fume and try to get someplace to do something when you're supposed to be waiting on the Lord to find out for sure just where He wants you to be and what He wants you to do.

The Lord is trying to teach you to make decisions. The first step is to ask the Lord. God likes you to give Him a little honor. Prayer is not just getting down and speaking your piece, but most of all letting God speak His piece, and waiting in quietness and confidence until He answers. You've got to know you can't do it, and be desperate for God's answer, and stop everything else, and listen.

Getting quiet before the Lord shows you have faith that God is going to handle the situation. He's going to take care of things. Take time to hear from God, and He'll take the time to straighten out the problem. Your feverish activity is nothing, your service is nothing, if you don't give the King your attention, your love, your time, your communion.

If you're hurrying and rushing around, fretting, and impatient, you'll never be able to focus your full attention--your eyes, your ears, your mind, your heart--on the Lord for the solution to the problem, the answer to the question, the best decision for the situation. If you stop, look, and listen, and wait in communion with Him--when you have learned to do this, and to get His answer, you will have learned how to make decisions. You will have learned to pray, and will have become one of God's leaders. "He gives the very best to them, who leave the choices up to Him."

The Word of God is the most powerful truth on earth. Words that contain the very Spirit and life of God Himself (John 4:24). The Word is the spiritual spark of God that ignites us with His life, light, and power.

Reading, absorbing, and following the Word of God is the most important thing you can do. It's the Word that keeps you in tune with God and helps you to keep going God's way. It was only when Adam and Eve quit listening to God's Word that they got in trouble. (See Genesis 3.) When you listen to God and His Word, He always tells you the truth, and if you obey His truth, you'll be blessed and fruitful. (See John 15:11; 13:17.)

Faith in the Word of God is such a vitally important principle. That's what this entire era and age of grace is built on, faith in the Word. "For without faith, it is impossible to please God," and "faith comes by hearing the Word of God" (Hebrews 11:6; Romans 10:17).

Although God is a "very present help in trouble" who will "never leave nor forsake us" (Psalm 46:1; Hebrews 13:5), He deliberately remains largely hidden and unseen behind the veil of the spirit realm. Therefore He expects us, His children, to "walk by faith, not by sight" (2 Corinthians 5:7). Most of the time the Lord seems to let us more or less fend for ourselves with very little direct, visible, or audible intervention from Him or His angelic agents. He doesn't give us a whole lot of too-easy help of openly visible supernatural assistance. Instead, He leaves a lot up to us, and He expects us to gain the spiritual strength and faith that we need from His Word.

He wants us to eagerly absorb His Word for ourselves, and thereby gain the faith that we need to meet the needs and confront the situations which we continually face, which is why the Word is so important. It is the primary means by which we receive God's communication and are made aware of His will, and thereby receive the faith and strength to carry on for Him in this life.

Where is the first place we look to find the will of God? The Word. His Word is the known, sure, absolute, revealed will of God. So even if you never receive a revelation, you never hear a voice, you never receive a prophecy, you never have the gift of knowledge or the gift of wisdom, you never have discernment, you never have healing, you never have miracles or any other gifts of the Spirit (1 Corinthians 12:8-10), if you'll just heed and follow His Word, you'll accomplish a whole lot for the Lord.

The Bible is the most wonderful, supernatural, miraculous, amazing, marvelous book in the whole world. It tells you where we came from, how we got here, why we're here, how to survive while here, how to be happy while here, and how to have love, joy, and peace forever.

Regardless of all the criticism, skepticism, and lies that its opponents may hurl at it, we know without a doubt that the Bible is true because we know its author. That's something nobody can disprove. Perhaps before you were introduced to the author, before you met the Lord, you didn't care much about the Bible and didn't know whether it was true or not. Maybe you never read it or didn't even believe in it. But now that you have found Jesus and have received Him into your own heart, you know His Word is true, because you know He wouldn't lie to you or tell you anything that wasn't right. Praise the Lord!

"Treasures new and old" (Matthew 13:52)

God has given His people the major basic information that they've needed from the very beginning. Then He's given more and more as history went on, until by and by, a few hundred years before Jesus came, He began to really tell the prophets what was going to happen. And then when Jesus came, with His apostles and the early church, He gave more details. All the time God has been giving more information and more details needed by man.

But what we have in the Bible today doesn't tell us everything. It does tell us the basics of what we really need to know. And in fact, it tells us a whole lot more than we really need to know for our salvation. It also contains a lot of very interesting and important lessons, showing how God deals with men--and how we should profit by their examples. Yet it also teaches us that even if we do fall, we can look forward with hope to God's mercy, praise the Lord!

There are a lot of folks who think, "The Bible's enough; that's all we need. God hasn't spoken since then; He doesn't speak anymore. He just shut up after He gave the book of Revelation to John, and we're not supposed to get anything else from God anymore." Thank God, He's not a silent God who shut up when the Bible was finished 2,000 years ago. He's a living God, a talking God, and He still speaks and has been speaking ever since then.--Talking to His people and His prophets and His children down through the ages, ever since the days of Jesus and His apostles and the early church. He's still alive and He still talks today. Hallelujah!

Soul food

Jesus said, "The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit and they are life" (John 6:63). His Word is the very life of God. That's what gives us spiritual life and food and nourishment and strength and health. Which is why a good, wholesome, balanced diet of His Word is essential if you wish to grow and stay close to Him.

Jesus Himself is called "The Word of God" in the Bible (Revelation 19:13; John 1:1,14). Jesus is the Word, He is the Spirit and the life, and you have to have a dose of Him every day, a good feeding and feasting and drinking, if you're going to grow and stay healthy spiritually. Just like you have to eat in order to have physical strength, you have to feed from the Word, drink of the Word, to have spiritual strength.

"As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the Word, that ye may grow thereby" (1 Peter 2:2). That's a picture of a baby who must have its mother's milk in order to live. Without receiving nourishment from the good, wholesome, nourishing, encouraging and feeding truth of God's Word, you will starve and eventually die spiritually. You have got to be fed spiritually or you will never grow up spiritually, you will never fully mature, and you will stay a spiritual infant or babe because you haven't properly fed from the milk of His Word. Just like a baby has a natural, instinctive, and irrepressible God-given desire to suck and draw the milk from its mother's breast, so we should hunger and thirst for the pure milk of the Word. If we are healthy spiritually, we should devour it, drink it in, and cry out to God for it just like a baby does for the milk of its mother.

The great prophet Jeremiah said, "I found Thy Words and did eat them, and Thy Word was unto me the joy and rejoicing of my heart" (Jeremiah 15:16). Job said, "I have esteemed the words of His mouth more than my necessary food" (Job 23:12).

There's nothing more important to your spiritual life than the Word. Because the Word is love, the Word is God, the Word is Jesus, the Word is everything. His Word is just that important.

Word time

Jesus said, "One thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall never be taken away from her" (Luke 10:42). What is the "good part" that Mary chose? The Word. She sat at Jesus' feet and listened to His Words. This is something that is so needful, so necessary, you've simply got to do it. To rest in the Lord and sit at His feet and hear from Him and His Word.

If you put the Word first, the Lord will always give you time somehow to take care of the other things. But you say, "I've got so many other things to do now and so much work to do, how am I ever going to find time to read the Word every day?"

If you get so busy with a little here and a little there that you don't have time for the Word of God, I'll tell you, you'll crack up that way. It's dangerous to neglect the Word. The minute you start crowding the Word out of your life, you are getting too busy. You can't just let things slide and get so busy with other things that you neglect your inspiration, the spiritual food and nourishment that you need from the Word.

Of course, once you have a good feeding, a good meal, you can get pretty full and be satisfied for quite a while. But pretty soon you need another one. And it's the same way with your spiritual food; you need to regularly take time with the Lord and His Word to make sure you get your spiritual food and inspiration. Try to set aside time each day in which you can quietly commune with the Lord through His Word. When you see the difference it makes in your walk with the Lord, you'll wonder how you ever got by without it.

"Open thou mine eyes" (Psalm 119:18)

Did you know that you can read the Word, but hardly get anything out of it? People can sometimes read passages over and over, and it just doesn't sink in. The Bible says, "The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him; neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned" (1 Corinthians 2:14). Unless we read the Word in a prayerful and receptive attitude, looking to the Lord and His Holy Spirit for guidance, it can be difficult for us to understand some things.

Unless the Holy Spirit reveals some things to you, enlightens your mind, you can be blind to certain truths that have been right there in front of you all the time. But if you earnestly pray, as David did, "Open thou mine eyes that I may behold wondrous things out of Thy Law" (Psalm 119:18), the Lord is faithful and will answer your sincere petition. Ask the Lord to "give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in knowledge of Him, so that the eyes of your understanding will be enlightened," and you won't be disappointed. You will indeed behold wonderful things from His wonderful words. Praise the Lord! (Ephesians 1:17-18).

A lot has to do with your desire to hear from the Lord and your hunger and receptivity. "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. For He hath filled the hungry with good things, but the rich (full) He hath sent empty away" (Matthew 5:6; Luke 1:53). If you read His Word prayerfully, and sincerely ask God to guide you, He always answers the hungry heart.

So much has to do with your attitude. The Scribes and the Pharisees of Jesus' day were fluent in scripture. They knew it by heart; they copied it all the time by hand. But because they were self-satisfied and self-righteous, they were anything but "hungering and thirsting after righteousness," and their hearts were hardened and their spiritual ears were deaf and they were devoid of understanding. They resisted the truth of the Word that they read, and truth resisted loses its power over the mind, and they didn't even realize how spiritually alienated they were from the Lord.

But if you sincerely seek the Lord as you hungrily read His Word, He will speak to you through it. And the more dearly you begin to love His Word and the more you study it and feed from it, the more you will grow spiritually and the more you will find that God can speak to you clearly and directly through His written Word.

When the Holy Spirit quickens a passage or a verse to you, applying it to your personal situation, it brings the Word to life. The Lord will bring His Word to life as you read it and give you answers to your problems and prayers. When He applies it to a situation, it suddenly becomes alive. It's no longer just mere words, but all of a sudden it hits your heart and you really get the point. "The entrance of Thy Word giveth light; it giveth understanding to the simple" (Psalm 119:130).

"Study to show thyself approved unto God" (2 Timothy 2:15)

The more you study the Word, the more it will become a constant source of pleasure to you--a source of enjoyment, inspiration, encouragement, edification, information, and continuous guidance. Real study time is not only reading time, but also listening to God time. When you begin to stop, look, and listen to the Lord's recorded written Word, you are immediately putting yourself in the position of being willing to listen, so then the Lord can begin to speak to you and give you His living Word.

To feed from the Word and spiritually graze in the green pastures by the beautiful still waters of His Word that He has for you (Psalm 23), you need to bear in mind what my teacher used to tell me in typing class, that the most important thing is not speed but accuracy. When you're reading the Word of God, it's accuracy that's important.

So read the Word carefully, prayerfully, and thoughtfully. You can miss a lot of the meaning, the real depth of what the Lord's talking about, unless you stop to think about it and apply the Word to your personal situation, and ask, "How is that true and how is that so?" Not with a questioning or a doubtful attitude, but one of faith, knowing that you can learn even more if you search further and dig deeper.

He says, "Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the Word of truth" (2 Timothy 2:15). If you will diligently and prayerfully labor in His Word, He will greatly reward you, and you will agree with David, who exclaimed, "Thy Word is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver" (Psalm 119:72).

Effects of the Word of God

The Word of God always has an effect. No one can hear or read the Word of God without being somehow influenced. Everyone who hears the Word is affected one way or another. Here are some of the dramatic effects that reading and living in the Word will have.

GIVES LIFE AND VICTORY

"His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in His law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season" (Psalm 1:2-3).

The wonderful water of God's Word can revive you even if you seem to be spiritually dead. Even if you've neglected it for a long time, if you'll only drink it in again, you can again become beautiful and fruitful. Just as we've seen seemingly dead trees, shrubs, plants, and gardens which were utterly barren and lifeless and leafless spring to life and become productive again when properly watered, so the water of His Word can bring you, though spiritually withered, new life and virtual resurrection if you will soak in His Word.

No matter what's wrong with you, if you'll just read the Word with an open and receptive heart, it will get you straightened out. It's reading the Word that kindles the desire to change in your heart--because you will be inspired, revitalized, renewed, invigorated, challenged, enthused, and filled with faith from His Word.

The Word is the secret of victory or defeat. It's the secret of success or failure. It all depends on how you treat the Word, and how you live in it and live on it, or try to go on without it. That's the secret. The secret of power and victory and overcoming and fruitfulness and fire and life and warmth and light and leadership is the Word!

Jesus told us that His words should abide in us, and that "as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in Me" (John 15:4,7). So in order to have the strength to do our job for the Lord, we have to spend time getting filled up with His Word. As the old saying goes, "You cannot do the Master's work without the Master's power." And to get it, you must spend time with the Master, feeding from His Words.

Even getting out the Word to others is not as important as getting into the Word yourself first. We need to get the Word in as well as out. Otherwise, you'll never have the spiritual strength and stamina that will sustain you, unless you yourself are drinking in the Word and being spiritually nourished and strengthened by it yourself first.

GIVES FAITH

"Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God" (Romans 10:17).

Every word you read gives you more faith, strengthens your faith, and drives away your doubts and fears. Faith is not something you can try to have. It is something that is built by faithful study of God's Word. You have it because you're full of the Word of God.

The best way to encourage your faith is to bury yourself in the Word of God. Encourage your faith with His Word and hang on to the Lord and you won't have to try to hang on to your faith, because it will come automatically. "Faith comes by hearing the Word of God"; it's an automatic thing. Just read His Word and you will believe.

CLEANSES

"Now ye are clean through the Word which I have spoken unto you" (John 15:3).

The only way to be thoroughly cleansed from the spiritual stench of the old stinking soiled clothes of your past life and your old sinful self, is a good bath in the pure water of the Word to thoroughly wash away all the old pollutions and any further desire or taste for them.

So if you need cleansing, go to the washing of the pure water of the Word, and let His truth cleanse you and rid you of all the filth and hogwash of this world and your own sinful heart (Jeremiah 17:9; Romans 12:2). "Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to Thy Word ... Cleansed with the washing of water by the Word" (Psalm 119:9; Ephesians 5:26).

KEEPS YOU

"The law of his God is in his heart, none of his steps shall slide" (Psalm 37:31).

He says, "Henceforth ye should no more be children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. But be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord" (Ephesians 4:14, 1 Corinthians 15:58). If your faith is founded on God's Word, it doesn't matter how you feel; you know the Word is still the same. God's Word is still just as effective and unchanging regardless of your feelings. And it is your faith in the Word that counts and will pull you through in times of severe trials or tests. "For this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith" (1 John 5:4).

The Word of God is your spiritual ballast. If you retain the Word in your heart, and your faith is founded on the Word, they will preserve you no matter what you may go through. Even though you may sometimes be weakened, you will still stand if you keep on God's firm foundation of faith, balanced firmly with His Word.

OUR WEAPON

"The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God" (Ephesians 6:17).

The Word of God is our spiritual sword that drives away and defeats the Devil every time we use it. When Jesus Himself was tempted by the Devil, He fought back with the Word. (See Matthew 4:1-10.) So when the Enemy comes around, take out your sword and whack away. Just bury him in a flood of truth, and he and all of his doubts and fears will flee. Sock it to him with the sword of the Spirit! The Word! That's the stuff that victories are made of!

"Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path" (Psalm 119:105). When you fill your mind with the Word of God, you don't have room for the darkness. So fill your mind with the light of God's Word, and the darkness will flee.

SURGICAL SCALPEL

"The Word of God is quick and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart" (Hebrews 4:12).

When witnessing to others, never underestimate the power of the Word. There is absolute power in the Word of God. It is only the sword of His Spirit which is sharp enough to pierce the hardest armor, so that the warmth of His Spirit of love can flow into their empty hearts.

His Word is the most powerful weapon in the world, sharper than any two-edged sword, sharper than any weapon on earth. It can do more than split atoms; it has greater power than the hydrogen bomb! For it can even divide asunder the soul and the spirit of man. And can change hearts and change minds and win followers to Christ and His cause.

In conclusion

There's so much more that we could say about this marvelous subject of God's wonderful Word, but suffice it to say, the more you live in the Word, the closer you'll be to the Lord, and the more blessed and fruitful your life will be. Praise the Lord! So let's keep the connection strong with His Word and His Spirit, His truth and His love, in humility and obedience. His words encourage and feed our souls. God is continually kissing and encouraging us with His words to reassure us that He still loves us. Do you kiss His wonderful words? Absorbing the Word, living the Word, preaching the Word, practicing the Word, and teaching others the Word? If so, God will mightily bless you, and you'll be eternally thankful and rewarded. Praise the Lord!

This is the age of grace in which God is demonstrating that people really have to make their own decision to love Him and serve Him voluntarily. They have to choose to be righteous, choose the Lord and His way, His Word. The next age, the Millennium, is a thousand years of the enforced rule of God and His saints over the unsaved.

God will show in every way how the world ought to be run and what people ought to be like during the Millennium, by His personal rule. They will see the Lord, in a way, and see His angelic officers and know His righteousness and the beauty of a restored creation without curse and even with very little death for a thousand years!

It appears that the Millennium could be an additional period of grace for those who didn't have a chance to really hear the Gospel or know the Lord, perhaps through the failure of Christians to reach the whole world with the Gospel, or at least to reach everybody we should have.--Particularly lots of children and young people who never had a chance to know any better, people in rural areas who never heard, or non-Christian cultures, to give them a chance to hear and see and know the Lord, and to sort of give them another chance. "For no man shall say, 'know the Lord': for all shall know Him" (Jeremiah 31:34).

Obviously God has had mercy on those who survived the Tribulation, the wrath of God, and Armageddon, and has helped them to survive it and live into the Millennium. It says, "Blessed are those that endure until that day" (Daniel 12:12). Why has He helped them survive all those horrors? Why has He allowed them to survive the Tribulation and the wrath of God and the extermination of the Antichrist kingdom in the Battle of Armageddon? Why has He allowed any of the unsaved to survive? It appears to me that it's God's mercy on some who didn't know any better or didn't hear the Gospel.

It says, "Those who have done things worthy of stripes who knew not their master's will shall be beaten with few stripes" (Luke 12:48). Compared to hell, even the Tribulation, the wrath of God, and the Battle of Armageddon are very few stripes.

There are probably millions of people in the world who've never heard or understood the Gospel--even some people in churches. They go to church and still have not heard or understood how to get saved, how to receive Jesus in their heart. What's going to happen to these people? Apparently God's going to have another sifting time during the Millennium to give a chance to those who, if they had heard, would have received Him.

It looks to me like the Millennium is another testing time or trying time, a proving ground. We, the saints, who heard the Gospel and voluntarily received the Lord, are saved and are running the world under the Lord. But all of the people who survived the age of man, the Tribulation, wrath of God, and Battle of Armageddon, are blessed. How are they blessed? It looks like they're given another chance to obey through the personal rule and reign of Christ and His children and the universal knowledge of the Lord and His love.

If there is a choice given at that time, to me that indicates that some people will choose what's right when they are presented with a full knowledge of the Lord, the personal appearance of the Lord, and His angelic, mighty, supernatural power, the proof of His existence and authority. The Lord Himself said to Thomas, "Because you have seen Me, you have believed."--Or in the case of the Millennium, shall believe. But He said, "More blessed are they who have not seen, yet have believed" (John 20:29).

So we're the most blessed, because we have not yet seen the Lord and His mighty, powerful kingdom. Although we have experienced Him in our hearts and we experience Him by the miracles He does, it is still all by faith, not by sight. So having believed, we have received and seen, and therefore, more blessed are we, the Lord Himself said: "Who, though having not seen, have believed." Nevertheless, the people who must have the proof, who must see the proof like Thomas, are still blessed. The Lord chided him a little for his doubts, and to some of the other apostles He said, "O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken" (Luke 24:25).

In one case, He said of the Pharisees, "They have Moses and the prophets"--in other words, they have the Word--"if they will not believe them, neither will they believe though one should come back from the dead" (Luke 16:31). There are some people who won't believe even if they see it! But there are those who, like the Jews, seek a sign (1 Corinthians 1:22), who will believe if they can just see some sign or some proof.

When the Lord was here on earth, He did everything He could to help people believe, and multitudes of them did believe. But in spite of His doing all kinds of miracles and even raising the dead, He said that there were some who, even though He raised the dead, still wouldn't believe. God keeps presenting the opportunity, the Word, the truth, the signs, the wonders, the miracles, raising the dead--even though some still won't believe.

There are some who believe God's Word without the signs and wonders and miracles. There are others who were encouraged to believe when they saw the signs and wonders and miracles. Seeing was believing. There were still others who were so hard in heart, like the self-righteous scribes and Pharisees, who wouldn't believe even though He raised the dead.

I think the Millennium is probably not only for the purpose of showing the world how it should've been run and how God would've run it and how it would have been if people had voluntarily accepted His laws and His righteousness and His love and loved one another. I believe that God will also give, in a sense, not a second chance but a first chance to a lot of people who have never before heard.

Look at the hundreds of millions in China who've never heard about Jesus and don't know who He is, especially children. They have never been taught about God or Jesus or His love. Look at the hundreds of millions in India and other places where they've been steeped in heathen darkness for ages, so that probably the vast majority of them have never heard. What about all those children and innocent victims of their system and their culture and religion, don't they deserve some kind of chance? I'm sure God's got a place for them too, to give them a chance. If He went to the heart of the earth and preached to the spirits in prison (1 Peter 3:19), that program is probably still being carried on, to give people who die without hearing the Gospel their chance to receive and believe.

How much more so in the Millennium, which is again a time of testing, a time of trial, a time of giving people an opportunity to believe and receive. And if so, then of course there are going to be those who never heard. There's a big argument over it among theologians, but I believe--because I know the Lord and know His love--that He's probably going to give those people a chance then to receive Him. Having seen Him, they're going to believe.

Even some of the saints of the Old Testament didn't have the advantage of having heard about the coming and death of Christ, except by prophecy, and yet they believed. No wonder God honored Abraham and Moses and others, because they had to look forward to something that hadn't even happened yet, and believe it (Hebrews 11:13).

They're even more blessed, in a way, because they didn't have the life of Christ and the Holy Spirit and His Word and Calvary as a known fact in past history. How much more blessed were they who believed, though having not seen! I believe in the Millennium there are going to be a lot of people who are going to be given their first chance. Maybe they're the only ones that are going to survive.

The Lord even says in one passage of some of the Jews, "They shall look on Him whom they have pierced and shall mourn for Him" (Zechariah 12:10). In other words, some are going to believe then. I don't know if that mourning is going to do them any good or not, or whether it's going to bring repentance, and as a result, having seen the Lord coming, they're then going to be saved because they receive Him. We hope that's godly sorrow, godly repentance, and that when they finally see Him when He comes--which is the beginning of the Millennium--they'll be saved. There are certain scriptures which seem to indicate that.

I think the Millennium is the time when God gives what I would call not a second chance, but a first chance to a lot of people who didn't have a chance before, because we Christians failed to give them the Gospel.

Apparently, some will be saved when they finally see and therefore they can believe--when they finally hear for the first time and therefore they believe and receive, and others who finally see and believe. But there are going to be some who will still be so hard and so rebellious against the rule of God, just as there are today!

I believe during the Millennium there is again going to be a sifting and a separation of the sheep from the goats. Those who never had a chance will be given a chance then to receive the Gospel, with the very strong persuasion of "seeing is believing"; those who perhaps would've believed if they could've seen some evidence of some kind or some sign.

They might have believed if they had seen a manifestation of the love of God in people who were supposed to love Him and be His people. We've had lots of people testify that they went for years in the church and never believed because they never saw God in anybody or a manifestation of His love.

In the face of the visible rule and reign of Christ on the earth, His personal appearance to man, His second coming in mighty power and glory, and His wiping out of the Antichrist and his kingdom and the imprisonment of Satan and His obvious visible rule and reign of firm love with a rod of iron, I think some are going to believe and receive who perhaps never heard before. And maybe there are some who might have heard but didn't understand or couldn't believe until they saw. They may be sort of second-class Christians, you might say.

There will still be the hard-hearted wicked who, the minute the Devil's let out of his prison, will run after him as their evil leader to lead them in open rebellion against the kingdom of God and the government of God on earth. It says they even "surround the camp of the saints" (Revelation 20:9). In other words, they literally try to overthrow the kingdom of Christ on earth. They are so deceived by the Devil into thinking that they can actually do it if they try! (Psalm 2).

God will have again sifted the wheat from the tares, the sheep from the goats. By giving the wicked who want to rebel a chance to rebel, they will come out into the open at the end of the Millennium and follow Satan into the Battle of Gog and Magog. They will openly show the rebellion they've had in their hearts the whole time, their refusal to be citizens of the kingdom of God, or to be in subjection to the rule and reign of Christ and His saints on earth. In spite of all the visible power and presence of God and His saints, they still didn't like it. In this heaven on earth of Christ's kingdom on earth, they're going to be uncomfortable misfits, oddballs, constantly resenting it and grumbling and complaining against it, and finally being deceived by the Devil to openly rebel against the Lord and His government, for which cause God will then wipe them all out!

I think the Millennium in a sense is going to be an extension of this day of grace for the sake of those who never heard or perhaps were too weak in faith to believe without seeing, as well as to manifest the heinous sin of the confirmed rebels, the utter reprobates. God in His wrath and vengeance is going to wipe them out like He does Satan's forces in that final Battle of Gog and Magog at the end of the Millennium.

I don't think the people who have heard and rejected deserve another chance; I don't think He's going to have mercy on them. Why should He? They wouldn't accept the love and forgiveness and sacrifice of Christ. So they deserve to go to hell and to suffer a while for their hardness and rejection.

But even for some of those, I think hell is going to be a purgatory. Even some of those are going to be purged from their rebelliousness and their unbelief and their hardness and rejection. Just like a child being punished or chastised, they're going to be given a chance there to repent and have some kind of restoration and restitution, if not actual salvation, some kind of eventual reconciliation.

They may have no right to the Heavenly City--heaven come down to earth, wherein only the saints and the saved shall walk--but apparently God is going to restore them to the surface of the heavenly earth in His mercy and His forgiveness, because through punishment and suffering in hell and purgatory, they've been purged from their wickedness.

They've repented and they have been humbled and they have begged for forgiveness and have been restored in some sense to life outside the Heavenly City on the surface of the earth. Some will still need healing by the leaves of the Tree of Life, evidently brought by the saved. We're the only ones allowed inside the City, so naturally we're the only ones to harvest the leaves of the Tree of Life to take them outside to heal the nations.

I believe that God's plan is not going to be defeated; God is not going to be defeated. He is going to redeem mankind. As the Bible says, "Who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth" (1 Timothy 2:4). In a sense they'll be saved, with no right to the Holy City, but they will still be allowed outside and be healed from whatever sins and sicknesses remain, so that it is a constant process and a constant renewal of the mercy of God. Once again, in the Millennium He has mercy on those who've never heard, and maybe those who needed to see some proof, and yet even greater wrath on those who still reject Him in the face of it.

Then again in the new heaven and new earth, there are people on the surface who were former idolaters, liars, and all kinds of things, yet He allows them outside the City, outside the walls thereof (Revelation 22:15). And He allows us to go out and minister to them with the leaves from the Tree of Life to heal the nations (Revelation 22:2).

I believe that the Lord's going to have us ministering to the final remaining people who still need complete healing from their sins and sicknesses to restore them to some state of reconciliation as we give them the leaves of life, the Good News of His everlasting love! Leaves from the Book of Life, the Word of God. "The Lord is not slack concerning His promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance" (2 Peter 3:9).

Leaving this life is just like going from one room to another and closing the door. It's passing from the flesh to the spirit, an abandoning of this world and a desire for the other. Everybody does it when they die.

It's similar, I presume, to what the astronauts feel in their weightlessness. Right now we're burdened by this old body. But in the spirit you don't have this weight. You're no longer weighed down with the flesh and burdened with the problems of the physical life. You've graduated from this grade of earthly life.

It's a wonderful feeling. You feel like you're floating on air when you're rid of the dead weight of this body. The one time I died for a few minutes, I thought, "Ah, this is great! I feel light as a feather; I never felt so good. I don't feel heavy anymore." I felt like I could just give a little shove and I'd float right off.

I was sitting up in my bed, but my body was lying in the bed behind me. I was sitting half in it and half out of it. But because I knew the Lord had more work for me to do here and more lessons for me to learn, I had such a will to want to come back that I prayed, "Lord, let me return to my body." Then all of a sudden I was back here in the natural, normal, material realm.

THE LONGEST JOURNEY

Many people don't like to think about death. It's something that is going to happen to everyone sooner or later, but most have made no preparation whatsoever for it.

So many people have got money, good jobs, families, homes, cars--everything. But they're getting old and death isn't far away and they're still not satisfied. They still don't have the answers. And they're afraid to die. Of course, it is a lot easier to be a skeptic when you're young and not looking in the face of daily death. But when you're about to die, you don't understand and you fear and you long for an answer.

Who all their lives live in fear of death, as the scripture says. "Who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage" (Hebrews 2:15). Bondage through fear! They fear dying because they're not prepared to die. It's easy to die when you're a Christian--you know where you're going. We don't have to fear because we're ready to go.

It reminds me of the story of the king's fool. There was a famous king who had a favorite jester in his court, to whom he finally gave some property and quite an income and retired him because of his good work all those years in cheering up the king and making him happy. He gave him this very beautiful cane with gold wrought into the wood, and he said, "I want to give you this, my own cane, as a special present to you from me, because you have been such an encouragement to me and so good to me all these years." He said, "You're going away now on a trip because I have set you free, and I want you to take this cane with you. It's my special gift to you for being the greatest fool I ever had!"

Some years later the king's fool heard that the king himself was dying, and he came to his deathbed and began to sympathize with him. He asked the king, "Are you ready to go?" The king said, "What do you mean?"

He answered, "Are you ready to die? Have you made preparations for this journey into death?" The king said, "How could I make preparations to die? What do you mean?" And the king's jester said, "Have you received Jesus Christ as your Savior? Are you ready to go to heaven?" The king said, "No, I'm not." The king's jester said, "Well, since I last saw you, I have met Christ and have found Him as my Savior, and I am ready to go."

They were both close to the same age. The jester said, "Once I was going on a long journey, and you gave me this cane as a present because you said that I was the greatest fool you ever had. I have made my preparations for that journey, the longest journey we'll ever take, and one from which we'll never return. But you have not made preparations for that journey." He said, "So I want to give you back the cane. You're a greater fool than I am!"

OUR HOMECOMING

Death for us is no great loss, "for to die is gain" for the Christian (Philippians 1:21). It's all gain. If we die, sudden death, sudden glory! Our troubles are over. There's a little pain for just a moment because of this physical body, and then we're free. It's a sudden release. It's really wonderful!

Death will be sweet release to a new world and a new life. Because the minute we die, we're instantly freed spiritually, liberated from the flesh into the world of the spirit. This is why in the face of death the apostle Paul said, "O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?" (1 Corinthians 15:55).

Jesus took the sting out of it. We pass through death, yes, but without sting--through the grave with victory for us, not the grave. Thank the Lord. It's a homegoing, a relief, a deliverance; it's our coronation day!

There'll be light in the sky
From that palace on high
When I come to the end of the road;
Sweet relief from all care
Will be waiting me there
When I come to the end of life's road.
When the long day is ended
And my journey is o'er,
I shall rest in His blessed abode;
There the Savior I love
Will be waiting for me
When I come to the end of life's road.[1]
Death is freedom for the Christian. It's a wonderful liberation. For the believer in Christ, it is being set free from this old body that gives us so much trouble. What better deliverance can you have than to get rid of the whole thing? The old body's heavy, it's tired, it hurts and gets sick. But we will enter a new world of freedom from the shackles of the flesh, into the vast and boundless universe of the Spirit.

The end of the road for us will be just the beginning. "When we all get to heaven, what a day of rejoicing that will be. When we all see Jesus, we'll sing and shout the victory!"[2]

We will meet our departed loved ones again and be joined with them eternally in everlasting happiness in an eternal life of love and joy and heavenly happiness forever with the God of love and those we love.

(Prophecy:) "Oh, what a day that will be when you join Me in My kingdom for evermore. You will have joy that you have never known, and will see glories you have never seen, and will know that it has been worth it all. For I am the resurrection and the life, and he that believeth on Me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And he that believeth in Me shall never die, but shall rise to life and love and music and hope in a land with children that shall live forever in Me and My house that I have gone to prepare for that which cannot die but shall live forever (John 11:25,26; 14:1-4). So lift up your eyes and raise your heart and cling to your faith, and you shall live forever with Me in My Father's house in which there are many mansions."

When morning dawns, farewell to earthly sorrows,
Farewell to these troubles of today.
There'll be no pain, no death in God's tomorrow,
When morning dawns and shadows flee away.
How little then these trials of life will seem,
How light the heavy burdens we have borne;
The deepest sorrow, like a passing dream,
Will be forgotten in that blessed morn.
So trust in God, however dark your way,
No matter what hard turns the road may take;
Hold to His hand until the break of day,
When in His likeness we shall then awake.[3]
LIFE AFTER DEATH--WHAT IT'S LIKE

God's visible creation is an illustration of the spiritual realm, of that which is invisible. Everything God created, everything God made, all the visible creation, is in some way an illustration of something spiritual. "For the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even His eternal power and godhead" (Romans 1:20).

So therefore the spirit world is probably not so different from this present existence that we can't even comprehend it or can't even understand it. Otherwise, we wouldn't be able to relate to it.

After Jesus comes back to the earth to establish His kingdom, we're going to have supernatural bodies, eternal bodies, spiritual bodies like the Lord had when He was resurrected. He said we were going to have bodies like His. His new resurrected spiritual body could materialize or dematerialize, appear or disappear. Think of that! It could pass from one dimension to the other through locked doors and solid walls. (See John 20:19, 26.)

Our old, decaying, natural, physical body will go back to the dust. We will trade in our old, worn-out, earthly model for an entirely new heavenly model that can even fly.

But just because you'll have a spiritual body, that doesn't mean you won't be human. You're going to have a lot of the same characteristics that you have now, just as Jesus did after His resurrection. He could even eat and drink and they could feel Him and touch Him as well as see Him, and yet He was in a miraculous supernatural body, His new resurrected body. (See Luke 24:36-43.)

It's still going to be you. You're even going to look a lot the same, only better. So although you may have the same characteristics that you have now, you'll be better off and in more direct communication with the Lord, actually experiencing the fullness of the realities of God and the world to come.

It's a beautiful place to be, full of beautiful people having a beautiful time. The spirit world is wonderful!

THE PARDON FROM DEATH

God is not a cruel tyrant, a monster who is trying to frighten everyone into hell, but a God who is trying to love everyone into heaven. "For God is love" (1 John 4:8). He wants to help you and save you and make you happy with His love. In fact, this is why He created you: to love and enjoy Him forever, to enjoy life as well as death.

But, sad to say, at some time or other we have all been selfish and unloving and unkind to others--and even to Him, our own loving heavenly Father. In fact, we have even deserved to be put out of His presence for our disobedience, willfulness, and rebellion against Him and His Holy Spirit, who, like a mother, yearns over us and tenderly tries to care for us.

"For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God" (Romans 3:23). In other words, we are all sinners; we've all been bad and we all need to be saved. "For the wages of sin is death: but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord" (Romans 6:23).

It's just like a pardon: God has offered pardon to the guilty. He sacrificed His own Son for our sins. "For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son (Jesus), that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:16). God loved you so much, He gave Jesus to die in your place, to take your punishment for you. Jesus is God's gift of love for you.

This is why Jesus could promise to those that believe on Him, "Thou shalt not taste of death" (Matthew 16:28). If we receive Him and His forgiveness and free gift of eternal life, we'll never really die in that sense of spiritual death, or taste the agony of death and separation from God.

This spiritual death is the worst death of the lost--a spiritual suffering in which their spirits will suffer after this life in the world to come. But Jesus in His death suffered not only physically but also spiritually, such as the unsaved suffer in the afterlife for their sins. Otherwise He could not have suffered for our sins. But He did suffer for our sins.

When Jesus died on the cross for us, He not only died in body, but He suffered even the feeling that the sinner has in the death of the spirit. This is why He cried out from the cross, "Father, Father, why hast Thou forsaken Me?" (Matthew 27:46). Exactly what this death of the spirit is, we don't really know. Jesus calls it hell, for some, like fire. It's a terrible, terrible thing whatever it is, some kind of suffering for your sins.

But Jesus, God's Son, was so sorry for us that He took our punishment for us. "That He by the grace of God should taste death for every man ... that through (His) death He might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the Devil; and deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage" (Hebrews 2:9, 14, 15).

To receive this pardon, we must simply be sorry for our sins, believe in Him, and receive His love. He stands at your heart's door and begs to come in. Jesus promised: "Behold, I stand at the door and knock: If any man hear My voice, and open the door, I will come in to him" (Revelation 3:20). You can have Him and all He has to give, which is everything, right this minute, if you'll just sincerely pray this simple prayer and ask Him to come into your heart:

"Lord Jesus, please forgive me for all my sins. I believe You died for me. I believe You are the Son of God, and I now ask You to come into my life. I open the door and I invite You into my heart. Jesus, please come in and help me to love others and tell them about You so that they may find You too. Help me to read Your Word and understand it by Your Spirit. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen."

If you receive and love and live for Him now, you can enjoy Him and heaven forever. And once you believe on and receive Jesus, you can know that you have eternal life here and now. You don't have to wait till you die to find out whether you're saved or not, because "he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life" (John 3:36). Here and now.

IN CONCLUSION

Are you ready to go? Departing from this life to the next is wonderful if you have Jesus. But there's so much work to do here on earth. For us, death would be the easy way out, but we have to live that others may get ready to die. It's our business to try to stay alive so that we can carry on the Lord's work. We've got to try to live a little longer to carry out what God wants.

But when your time comes and you die, then you've finished your earthly task. It will be your graduation to the heavenly world of the hereafter with a crown of glorious eternal life with Him and your loved ones forever!

Just make sure you're prepared by receiving Jesus as your Savior so you will be ready when He comes for you, and you'll know you're safe and bound for heaven. Receive Jesus today. May God bless you with salvation. And God bless you with a good death. Happy flyaway! We'll wake up forever in the heavenly kingdom of God with peace and plenty and love for all forever.

"Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel to every creature" is not an option. It's a commandment. The message is clear. There's no denying it or excusing ourselves. We must simply have the faith to obey, even if it means going out not knowing whither we go (Hebrews 11:8).

Jesus made it quite clear that all Christians are ordained to preach the Gospel when He said in John 15:16, "Ye have not chosen Me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit."

Therefore, it is not just a nice thing to do when we feel like it, or can find the time, but it is the God-given job and responsibility of all His true children, as Paul expressed, "For though I preach the Gospel, I have nothing to glory of: for necessity is laid upon me: yea, woe is unto me if I preach not the Gospel" (1 Corinthians 9:16). (See also Ezekiel 3:17-19.)

This is why we devote our time and energies to preaching the Gospel to every creature and winning their souls to Jesus Christ and His service for others (Mark 16:15). That's what we're here for: to win people to Christ! For "herein is My Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be My disciples" (John 15:8).

Man's greatest need: Matthew 9:36-38

Regardless of nationality, country, color, or creed, the heart of man is the same the world over, and his heartaches and sorrows and sins and pains and fear of death are the same. His longings, loves, and hunger for God and His truth, for joy and happiness and peace of mind, are God-created, and the same in men the world over.

Even though many people are really seeking genuine love, they seldom, if ever, find it. For there are never enough of God's people who are willing to show them His real love. As Jesus Himself said, "The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Therefore," He commanded, "pray ye the Lord of the harvest, that He will send forth laborers into His harvest" (Matthew 9:37-8).--His vast harvest of multitudes of frozen, cold, hungry people, wandering around in darkness without God.

God's greater solution: Acts 1:8

Only the supernatural, miracle-working power of the Holy Spirit of God Himself can do the job and win their hearts, bring them to a decision, and cause them to be born again as new creatures. Therefore, God has promised an anointing of this very power to His witnesses to help them lead others to him. "Ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto Me" (Acts 1:8). The purpose of the power is for witnessing.

We've got nothing but God, so let's show them His Spirit! As Paul said, "My speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power: that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God" (1 Corinthians 2:4-5). It's this fiery anointing that counts. If you haven't got the fire, I don't care how "good" a witness you are; it's just cold, dead icicles of facts and figures, and you'll never set anyone else on fire without it! As Jesus said, "Without Me, ye can do nothing" (John 15:5).

But if you do your part, and "abide in the vine," yielding yourself to Him in submission and humility, then the Lord will do His part, and inspire you, or fill you with His Spirit, so you can "bear much fruit"--newborn babes into the kingdom of God. (See John 15:1-8.)

As a young preacher with a real love for the lost and a sincere desire to try to win the lost the churches had failed to reach, I tried everything I could think of, dreamed up every method I could imagine to try to carry the Gospel to them. I preached on the streets and in the parks; I sang at the top of my voice; I showed pictures and movies anywhere I possibly could--to reach the people outside of the church with the message of God's love! But it was still the meeting method and the mass evangelism approach, which only had moderate success.

Then, one day I found out the exciting truth and thrilling fact that you could win more souls witnessing individually to individual people wherever you could find them, without a church or a pulpit or a meeting of any kind, anywhere, any time, and all the time, everywhere to everybody! You have to search them out individually, personally, with tender loving care and personal attention. Jesus said that the good shepherd "calleth his own sheep by name (personally, individually) and leadeth them out" (John 10:3).

As children of God, you should have love and compassion for everyone, not just your own--young or old, rich or poor, strong or weak, even if you don't like them--"every creature!" However, God's Spirit will lead you especially to those who really need your loving help, and who will respond in appreciation, just as it will also lead them to you.

God's Spirit goes where there are open and receptive hearts that are hungry: He seeks the low and the humble and the contrite heart, but resists the proud. His Word says, "The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit. He hath filled the hungry with good things; and the rich (or full) He hath sent empty away. "For God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble" (Psalm 34:18; Luke 1:53; 1 Peter 5:5).

Tips to use when witnessing: Proverbs 11:30

In leading people to the Lord, you often have to inspire their faith in you before they can believe God. You are their link with God. As Jesus said, "He that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth Me; and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me" (John 13:20).

You must establish points of contact with them. There must be something in common in order for people to communicate. Use the kind of language that will win them. If it takes strong language to get the point across--use it! If it takes sweeter language, use that. Ask God for wisdom (James 1:5).

One of the most needed abilities in witnessing is adaptability: being able to be anything to reach anybody and to become all things to all men. This tactic of adaptability was largely responsible for much of the apostle Paul's soul-winning success. He said, "To the Jews, I became as a Jew; that I might gain (win) the Jews; to them that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain them. ... I am made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some" (1 Corinthians 9:20, 22).

Sometimes, all some people need is for somebody to listen, and that's half the job of being a witness. Let's not fail them in showing them we're willing to listen to their troubles. Often they're really hungriest for fellowship and companionship and real love and sympathy, just somebody to talk to, to relieve their loneliness and to feel like somebody cares and shares their misery and their needs and problems.

(Prophecy:) "To love is to weep with them, to cry with them, to suffer with them that suffer, and to feel the agony of heart with them whose hearts are broken!"

Simplicity of the Gospel

I led a lot of people to the Lord with only John 3:16: "For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but have everlasting life." That's all you really need to know to win souls. You shouldn't try to cram the whole Bible into the people you're witnessing to anyhow. Often it's good enough to harp on a verse or two until they've got them so memorized they can't forget them.

Beware lest ye be led away from the simplicity of the Gospel (2 Corinthians 11:3). Except ye be as a little child, ye shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven (Matthew 18:3). You've got to be a baby! And babies don't waste most of their time arguing over theoretical, theological, doctrinal shibboleths.

On answering questions

Answer sincere questions honestly and show people the truth, and if they really want to know, God will show them. "My sheep hear My voice" (John 10:27). You don't necessarily have to always give them the answers they want, but the answers they need.

But it's good to be aware that there are those that ask questions not because they want the answer, but because their minds are already made up and they don't want to be confused with the facts, but are only trying to trap you or waste your time. This happened to Jesus, when the self-righteous Pharisees tried to trap Him with His own words. "And the scribes and the Pharisees began to urge Him vehemently, and to provoke Him to speak of many things; laying wait for Him, and seeking to catch something out of His mouth, that they might accuse Him" (Luke 11:53-54).

Don't try to cram the truth down the throats of those who don't want it. Seek out the hungry sheep. Jesus walked miles out of His way in the heat of day to love and win one wicked woman at a well. "For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost" (Luke 19:10).

This lowly lady at the well was so thrilled about her experience with this stranger named Jesus that she "left her water pot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men, 'Come see a man that told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ?'" And as a result of her personal testimony, "many of the Samaritans of that city believed on Him for the saying of the woman" (John 4:39-42).

So when witnessing, it often helps to give your own personal testimony. They can hardly deny that without calling you a liar, and they're not likely to do that if you present it with earnest sincerity, love, and power of the Spirit--real conviction.

Lift up Jesus, who said, "If I be lifted up. I will draw all men unto Me" (John 12:32). Preach Christ.

On your greatest witness: Love

Your greatest witness is love, for the only love of God they can see is the love they see in you. If you don't show them the love they can see and feel, they're going to have a hard time believing that there is someone up there whom they don't know and that He really loves them.

So you should always drop a little love into the hearts of those you pass by, even if only with a word, a smile, or a look of sympathy, and they will know that God has loved them that day. His Spirit will tell them so. It never fails, because "God is love" (1 John 4:8), and it's impossible for Him to fail! And He will help us not to fail if we are willing to win them with the kind of love that led Jesus to the cross to lay down His life for you, to die that you might live.

That is the only kind of love that's going to win the world: the love of Jesus. "For God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:16).

Let them know that the true God is a good God who is kind and loving and concerned about His children, and who hates war and deplores the poverty of the poor and their suffering, and is determined to set things right soon.

On prayer power

It's always helpful to have prayer with them, if the occasion warrants. Never underestimate the power of prayer. There are very few people who don't respect prayer, or at least your right to pray.

You can show them that Jesus said, "Behold, I stand at the door (of their heart) and knock: If any man hear My voice and open the door, I will come in to him" (Revelation 3:20). In other words, they can ask Him to come into their heart with all His love, life, liberty, truth, peace, plenty, and happiness--here, now, and forever.

Sometimes I hang onto my subject's hand with both of mine for a word of prayer, or to try to get them to make a decision, and often they really break and accept the Lord. There's something electrifying about prayer. As Jesus said, "Where two or three are gathered together in My name, there am I in the midst of them" (Matthew 18:20).

The results and rewards of soul-wooing: Daniel 12:3

Spiritually, everyone you witness to, you're wooing them in the spirit--wooing and loving and sowing the seed of God's Word in the spirit. When the soul is receptive, the seed just pours in, and then you bear a spiritual baby!

This is the end result and greatest goal of soul-wooing, a newborn babe in the family of God, a whole new created soul made by the hands of God for all eternity to enjoy--the only thing we can take with us from this world.

As Paul wrote to one of his flocks, "We preached unto you the Gospel" (1 Thessalonians 2:9), and "Ye received the Word of God, which ye heard of us" (1 Thessalonians 2:13). They got saved! Then, referring to Jesus' return, he says, "For what is our crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye (the souls he had won) in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at His coming?" (1 Thessalonians 2:19)

These are the gifts the Lord is most pleased with: the lives and hearts of men. There was always a glorious presentation of gifts before the conquering king. We, God's victorious army, will lay at His feet--the feet of the conquering King--the souls we have recaptured from the Enemy!

So get out and do your best for Jesus and lost souls, and God himself will reward you with everlasting souls and joy of the Lord for a job well done which has reaped much fruit, whose fellowship we shall enjoy in God's Family, both now and forevermore, and for which both you and they will be eternally thankful and God everlastingly grateful! "Well done," He'll say, "thou good and faithful servant. ... Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord" (Matthew 25:23). Hallelujah! They that win many shall shine (Daniel 12:3).


