
The N e w  D ay
VOL. II NEW YORK, N. Y., THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1st, 1938 A.D.F.D. No. 35
MEN PREACHED THAT CHRIST, THE LAMB OF GOD, WAS MIGHTY,  
BUT THE LAMB OF GOD IS MEEK AND LOWLY, YET MENTALLY  
AND SPIRITUALLY, HIGH AND HOLY
IT IS GOOD TO BE ABLE TO DISCERN THE IMPERSONAL IN EVIDENCE  
BEING MADE PERSONAL, AND THE PERSONAL IN EVIDENCE
BEING MADE SPIRITUAL
FATHER’S MESSAGE  
GIVEN AT THE BANQUET TABLE  

Being somewhat like Sayville from a spiritual 
point of view, the Bridgeport Extension seems 
to be on the order of a shrine in the act of bring­
ing out and drawing from the Source of all Sup­
ply, the Fount of all Wisdom, our Precious Sav­
ior, these marvelous and outstanding and pro­
found Messages, such as the one given on this 
occasion. In His Infinite Wisdom and Omnis­
cience, FATHER delivers Messages that perplex 
the finite minds of the children of men; for they 
are limited in their mortal versions, ideas and 
opinions; they lack the true concept and under­
standing concerning the Truth and concerning 
things with which they are concerned.
Because of the Love of GOD and because of 
His Tender Mercy and Compassion for His chil­
dren and for all humanity, He daily instructs, 
leads and guides them, in order that they might 
not err nor misunderstand the Truth, and if per­
chance they are misled in any way whatever, 
He is ever ready and willing to correct them and 
teach them the Truth, without its being adulter­
ated or tainted by the versions and theories of 
others.
Before FATHER delivered this Message, one 
of the Co-workers gave a testimony of thanks 
and praise to FATHER for the blessings and alsomentioned how he had come to the place where 
he could recognize the impersonal presence of 
individuals, and that he considered the imperson­
al as being the reality of each and everyone. 
Another one of the Co-workers gave a beautiful 
testimony, in which she related hoto those of 
the unconscious minds greatly admired FATHER 
and His Teachings and the fine qualities He is 
instilling in those of His followers, but they could 
not come to the place where they could recognize 
His DIVINITY.
It was directly after these two testimonies 
that FATHER arose and delivered this Supreme 
and Masterful Message to the eager and waiting 
listeners.
(The foregoing statements are those of the 
transcriber, after which FATHER speaks as fol­
lows :)
■  PEACE, EVERYONE! Life, Liberty and the 
pursuit of Happiness, Pleasure, Success and Pros­
perity and the reality of Happiness; these and 
all other blessings to you I bring. Uncle Sam 
nationally declared, ‘ Life, Liberty and the pur­
suit of Happiness,’  but Peace, Joy, Pleasure and 
the reality of Happiness to you I am bringing 
into your conscious realization, if you will but let 
Me.
I was thinking just then, of what the second 
to the last speaker said in reference to observing 
the impersonal presence of each other. It is a 
wonderful place in consciousness, if you can get 
to that place in reality and remain there concern­
ing yourself and all creatures.
The personality of the individual is an expres­
sion whereby with this recognition you would 
be lifted above materialism; you would not have
6 The  NEW DAY September 1st, 1938
an occasion to fret nor worry, neither would 
you have an occasion to be defeated; for the 
impersonal presence of each and every expres­
sion, when you conceive the idea concerning the 
impersonal of such an expression, whether it be 
inanimate ‘ things of life or even the very persons 
with whom you have been connected, you would 
find with such a recognition, you would be lifted 
above the mortal concept of things and you could 
revel int.o the glorious liberty of the Sons of 
GOD!  Nevertheless, it is a very close walk in that 
light, as you walk mentally and spiritually, for 
you to avoid stumbling into self-conceitedness 
or selfishness or become to be self-bewildered 
into the mortal concept of things, observing 
things psychically and yet refusing to observe 
them,
You May Conflict with Your Real Self
I mentioned this because you may get to that 
place in consciousness, whereby you may even 
ignore or ridicule or criticize the personality or 
the persons of individuals, when they are the 
accurate expressers or manifestoes of such an 
impersonal presence. Hence, you may unwill­
ingly conflict with your real self by conceiving 
the idea in opposition to the personal presence, 
and attempting to bar the personal presence of 
individuals for the maintenance, or in other 
words, for the purpose of redeeming and keep­
ing the impersonal presence in evidence. Hence, 
you may desire to do so, you see, and become 
to be in that state of being, whereby you would 
tend to disapprove of or refuse to consider the 
presence of others, in opposition to your own 
standard or sense of feeling, for you are in a 
person!
I mention that because it is a place in con­
sciousness where you should be, if you keep right 
with the concept and the understanding concern­
ing the mystery! I recognize jmur personal pres­
ence as your personal presence recognizes the 
Impersonal and reflects and fulfills all of the im­
personal requirements of the Personal and all of 
the Personal requirements of the Impersonal. 
When this is done, why, it is a matter of impos­
sibility to get one in consideration, without get­
ting the other, if it happens to be an expression 
in person observable.
Then, when you appear in My Consideration 
in person, your very personal consideration I 
may ignore in one sense of the word, but I must 
recognize the personal presence according to the 
recognition of the impersonal presence I hold in 
My Concept concerning you; so long as the per­
sonal presence is brought into subjection to the 
Impersonal. Therefore, the impersonal is theexpresser and the reality, while yet if we ignore, 
in other words, turn to hate the person, if the 
person is not in violation to the impersonal, you 
see, we will be objecting to the impersonal, and 
even the impersonal would leave us. You see 
the mystery ?
Ignoring the Person of GOD
I mention that because there have been times 
when individuals have come into that considera­
tion in a great measure, whereby they would de­
sire the impersonal and ignore the person—not 
only of you as individuals, but even ignore the 
Person of GOD in evidence as PERFECTION, as 
the two in One put forth into expression, the 
SPIRIT and the BODY.
‘If I receive Him or He Whom I send, I re­
ceive that One that sent Him,’
(of which is My Impersonal Presence, you see,) 
so long as the personal presence is controlled 
implicitly and whole-heartedly and completely 
by the Impersonal. That is the mystery!
So, those thoughts are well worth considering; 
but there is a technical point in that to consider, 
you see, where we may get to that place—‘ Well, 
I ignore—it is immaterial to me about the person 
of any individual, even the Person of GOD.’  
That is a true saying to be in that place, if it is 
so arranged and so agreed upon; but for the 
benefit of all who may be concerned, I speak on 
thuswise; it is good to be able to discern the 
Impersonal in evidence being made Personal, and 
the Personal in evidence being made Spiritual!
I receive you as you are. If you are One with 
the Impersonal, I receive you personally as One 
with the Impersonal;  for I could not receive you 
effectively personally, and refuse to receive you 
impersonally; and I could not receive you effec­
tively impersonally, and refuse to receive you 
personally; for you are in perfect harmony with 
the reality of your higher self—the Impersonal. 
That is the mystery! For you cannot get one 
without getting the other. When the two are 
so jointly unified together, the two will be in 
evidence in expression and the evidence in ex­
pression will be the personification of the imper­
sonal.
The Impersonal Will Adjust the Situation
Those things are to be considered, even as I 
consider you! It is to raise your thoughts above 
the mortal concept of things, and if, perchance, 
it is that the impersonal is in evidence and can 
and does present itself without the personal, .the 
impersonal will adjust the situation by the rec­
ognition of such as is in evidence of the personal 
and of the impersonal. But that thought to lean
September 1st, 1938 T h e  N E W  D A Y 7
on as an individual to consider a t times—‘Well, 
what do I care about the Personal?’
Many times you can get into that place in 
consciousness, until you will only recognize the 
Spirit—invisible Spirit—and after a while, GOD 
will only recognize your invisible spirit, and after 
a while you will not have a body and GOD will 
not have a Body as far as you are concerned, 
and other individuals will not have a body as 
far as you are concerned! That is the mystery!
Now, I was talking with a person who is sick, 
yesterday, and she is in a low state of health— 
she really needs help; and in My illustration, I 
brought to her mind’ s eye concerning the mys­
tery. Her physical body is afflicted and very ill 
apparently. I said, ‘Now your body is afflicted 
and you desire deliverance from the undesirable 
conditions of it. If you dis-recognize the Person­
al Presence or the reality of GOD as personified, 
GOD may dis-recognize the reality of you as 
personified and your physical body may not be 
healed, but your soul or spirit within will be 
healed and saved.’  Can you not see the mystery? 
I said, ‘ As with the body, so with the body; and 
as with the spirit, so with the spirit. When you 
recognize GOD’S Spirit alone and dis-recognize 
GOD’ S Body, GOD in turn has a right to recog­
nize your spirit alone and redeem it and save it 
in Heaven, wheresoever Heaven is, but your body 
He does not have grounds or rights whatever, 
to consider.’  That is the mystery!
Redemption of the Body
I mention this because this sister needs deliv­
erance in the physical system; the physical body 
needs to be delivered and emancipated from the 
undesirable and incurable disease she is suffering 
under. Oh, it is something to consider! Now the 
spirit, may be all right; she may be well in mind 
and in spirit, but not in body; and she has not 
yet recognized the PERSONIFICATION of the 
ALMIGHTY. I said to her in part—I said to her, 
‘These, My followers, the reason they are healed 
by the wholesale or the millions, is because
‘ the recognition of the personification of GOD 
is the redemption of the body as well as the 
soul; but the dis-recognition of the personifica­
tion of GOD and the dis belief or un-belief in 
the PERSONIFICATION of the Body of GOD, 
'even so is the dis-recognition of GOD concern­
ing such a-one and such individuals who would 
dis-recognize GOD in Bodily Form.’
‘ Hence, their bodies die; but those of My fol­
lowers who are true and faithful and radical 
enough to believe in the personification of GOD, 
and believe that GOD made Himself FLESH as a 
Bodily Form like unto theirs, by such a recogni­tion they are lifted physically from undesirable 
conditions, because they have recognized the 
MATERIALIZATION of His Majesty!’
Oh, it is a privilege to observe the mystery 
and to build upon such a Foundation; for this is 
IT of which will lift you and all humanity physi­
cally, from the undesirable existing conditions of 
our present day. The undesirable present-day 
existing conditions will hold you down under such 
conditions, so long as you merely recognize and 
consider or believe in the Impersonal Presence 
of GOD as something invisible, as SPIRIT and 
SPIRIT alone. But when you believe in the 
MATERIALIZATION of GOD, yet GOD being 
Impersonal by Nature and by Characteristics, 
by such a recognition, from those undesirable 
conditions you will be lifted mentally, spiritually 
and physically.
Real Emancipation
Oh, it is a privilege to KNOW your GOD! The 
belief in the personification of GOD is the re­
demption of your physical body; is the deliver­
ance of you, in and on the material plane, from 
all undesirable things. Such will give you your 
real emancipation, even as it did in the time of 
Jesus. When the disciples, believers and friends 
believed on Him sincerely as a Person, the un­
desirable conditions that surrounded them and 
those things that concerned them on the material 
plane, were adjusted satisfactorily, because they 
believed on the Personality, or in other words, 
the Person of the ALMIGHTY, made REAL, 
TANGIBLE and PRACTICAL. That is the mys­
tery!
But when they merely believed on GOD meta­
physically, mentally and spiritually and psychic­
ally, and refused to observe the mystery of His 
Personal Presence and the Word being made 
FLESH, dwelling among them, they could not 
see His Glory, because they can only see His 
Glory in the Personification of Him and ‘the 
Word that was with GOD was GOD, and that 
Word was made FLESH and dwelt among us 
and we beheld His Glory as the Glory of the only 
Begotten of the FATHER, full of Grace and of 
Truth.’  You could not behold the Glory of GOD, 
saving as it was made real in the FLESH! The 
FLESH was the demonstrator and manifestor 
of the Glory of the ALMIGHTY; therefore, it 
was essential for the WORD to come forth into 
expression and the FLESH to be reckoned in 
your consideration, that you might be lifted 
physically or ‘fleshly’  from the undesirable con­
ditions, for CHRIST as a Person is your Real 
Personal EMANCIPATOR. That is the mystery! 
Before Jesus came, saving on some few rare
8 The  N E W  D A Y
occasions, there were no people physically healed 
of the afflictions and diseases; but by the recog­
nition of GOD in and as Jesus, such a recognition 
lifted humanity mentally, and gave all creatures 
a higher realm of consideration, that they might 
consider the redemption of the body as well as 
that of the soul.
Groaned Within
What said the Apostle concerning the mys­
tery? He said, ‘We groaned within ourselves, 
waiting for the adoption, to wit, the redemption 
of the body.’  Can you not see the mystery? 
CHRIST JESUS, the Adjuster of matters, the 
Satisfier of desires;  not only the Adjuster of mat­
ters and the Satisfier -of the mental and spiritual 
desires, but the Satisfier of your physical or 
material desires with which you have been per­
plexed and disturbed daily, for the lack of the 
sustenance of life and the satisfying portion of 
those things,—your daily desires, in and on the 
material plane.
Oh, it is a privilege to observe the mystery and 
see how GOD through His Compassion and Mercy 
will lift you, if you will let Him! By the recogni­
tion of His Actual Presence in Person, you can 
and will be lifted personally and physically from 
the undesirable conditions; but if you dis-recog- 
nize GOD, GOD will dis-recognize you as a per­
son; for that which you measure to Him or to 
He of Whom you say I AM, the same shall be 
measured to you, heaped up and running over.
These thoughts are well worth considering; 
and again I wish to say, according to the Message 
I have been stressing over and over again for 
consideration;  if you stop and consider the mys­
tery of those who are consecrated, those who are 
making a complete surrender to GOD are the 
ones who are worthy of His blessings to come 
into possession of their rightful inheritance on 
the material plane; and only those who make 
a complete and a whole-hearted surrender, as 
said the composition in a song that is often sung,
‘ I ’ ll surrender all, all to Thee My Blessed
Savior; I’ll surrender all.’
The Widow’s Mite
I was thinking as I had thought and I was 
speaking as I had spoken;  how the woman, who, 
according to Saint Luke 12: 41-44, put in the 
two small mites—put in just a little—and Jesus 
the Son, said she had put in more than all they 
who had put in their thousands. That was a con­
secration, that was a sacrifice she was making 
by consecrating and sacrificing all she had, al­
though it was little according to the mortal ver­
sion; but yet it was considered with others andSeptember 1st, 1938
above others who had cast in their thousands, 
yea, their millions.
Can you not see the Scripture is now being 
fulfilled, the Gospel and the Epistles? And I am 
the Fulfiller, and those who are with Me whole­
heartedly are the fulfillers of the positive instead 
of the negative;  and those who are with Me par­
tially are fulfillers of the negative partially and 
the positive partially, but are fulfillers whole­
heartedly.
Take these thoughts to consideration and build 
upon this Foundation, that you might be counted 
in the Number if you wish to, of those who are 
worthy who have made a complete surrender; 
and if you do not wish to, if GOD rewards you 
according to your sacrifices you are making, why, 
you cannot expect any other; therefore, you may 
not be blessed so very much in body nor in ma­
terial things, for you may be only making a sac­
rifice on the spiritual and mental side of life and 
not on the material side. That is the mystery! 
But GOD is Just and will reward every man ac­
cording as his works may be. That is one fea­
ture of the Work of which we are now fulfilling 
this day in your hearing!
The Fulfillers of Scripture
Wherever you read about Me and My Work 
and Mission, you can. see I am the Fulfiller of the 
Gospel and the Epistles ;  I am the Fulfiller of the 
Scripture, and you are Helpers as Co-Workers 
.  together, to help fulfill the Gospel and the Epis­
tles. You may not be true, yet you may be 
fulfillers;  for there were some who were not true 
in the parable. Therefore, you are in the great 
universal scheme of things, in the fulfillment of 
the Scripture and in the repeation of history as 
history is repeating itself. Aren’t you glad!
It is the privilege of those who desire to, to 
make that grade whereby they can, if they wish 
to, be real fulfillers of the Scripture in the posi­
tive direction. Then and only then are they 
closely connected.
That particular Scripture as afore related con-, 
cerning the widow who put in her two mites; 
she was considered in GOD’S sight, to have 
given more than all they who had put in their 
thousands. How marvelous it is to observe the 
mystery! For she put in all she had, although 
it was a little, while others put in thousands and 
no doubt millions, but they were not fully con­
secrated; therefore, they did not put in all of 
their living and they were not worthy of the 
blessings, such as the one who had put in the 
small, limited amount, because she had put in 
all of her living!
How glorious it is to observe the mystery!
September 1st, 1938 iffieNEW DAY 9
Even as one said a little, while ago, concerning 
people understanding and speaking of My Work 
and speaking of My Teaching, how they say that 
they enjoy it and they can see it, but they can­
not believe I AM GOD, or words to that effect. 
It is immaterial to Me whether you believe I AM 
GOD or merely believe that I AM an Expression 
sent from GOD, as Nicodemus did and' always 
will until he is born again! It does not change 
the situation, it does not change the proposition; 
that which I have spoken into consideration I am 
now fulfilling.
The Sample and Example
So long as it brings the desirable results, so 
long as it gives the desirable portion to all hu­
manity and does that which is just and right for 
all who are concerned, such an expression-is well 
worth considering; therefore, I establish it as a 
reality among this people! It is a Sample, it is 
an Example. They can plainly see, if they do 
not believe I AM GOD, they are in contact and 
coming in contact with something that is SU­
PERIOR and surpasses anything they have ever 
come in contact with!
If this is true, then WHO can do the impos­
sible? WHO can do the thing that man cannot 
do, that is GOOD? I leave it to them to con­
sider! It is immaterial to Me. So long as they 
can see I AM doing all things that are being done 
that man cannot do and man has not done, why, 
if it is good and just and true, then consider with­
in yourselves and transmit the thought to oth­
ers: WHO can do such things, if it is something 
man cannot do?
‘Well, I just cannot see how those things can 
be.’  There were men before Benjamin Franklin 
who could not see how GOD’S lightning would 
have any business coming down here lighting up 
this room today! ‘What business have men to 
interfere with GOD when He is speaking up in 
Heaven?’  That is the way GOD speaks accord­
ing to their version;  but GOD, through His Con­
descension in Benjamin Franklin and others, has 
brought out many inventions of the past and of 
the present, so far-reaching they should be con­
vincing to all humanity, there is a reality in GOD 
functioning among His people, even the same as 
the transmission of the lightning and the trans­
lation of it into electricity.
Behold the Meekness and the Majesty of the 
Infinite
Oh, it is a privilege to observe the mystery and 
to see GOD in His Love and Mercy !  That is why 
it was said by John, even in the wilderness, as 
a wilderness preacher out in the woods preach- 
ing,‘ Behold the LAMB of GOD, Who taketh 
away the sins of the world.’
Behold such a state of MEEKNESS, of MAJ­
ESTY, of the HUMBLENESS of the Infinite! 
Behold such a state of expression .  .. such a 
state of expression as in evidence in this expres­
sion, of which is coming and taking away the 
sins of the world!
He did not say, behold the GREATNESS of 
GOD, but behold the MEEKNESS, the HUM­
BLENESS, the LOWLINESS of *G O D . You 
know the lamb is the most meek expression of 
all the earth, and the most humble. Behold such 
an expression of G.OD! That is the thing that 
takes away the sins of the world. Can you not 
see the mystery? .
Men have preached and taught from years 
back—they preached that CHRIST, the LAMB 
of GOD, He is MIGHTY, He is POWERFUL, He 
is GREAT; but the LAMB of GOD is MEEK and 
LOWLY, yet mentally and spiritually, HIGH 
and HOLY. Yea, yes, GOD is HIGH and HOLY 
mentally and spiritually, but in such an expres­
sion of the LAMBSHIP degree of humiliation, 
the LAMBSHIP degree of timidity even, the 
LAMBSHIP degree like a little lamb. Behold 
such an expression! That is the SAVIOR of the 
world. Can you not see the mystery?
And on the Mt. Sion—you find John, in hi? 
reVelationic prediction of this time, he said;
‘ I looked and LO, a LAMB stood.’
The LAMB-LIKENESS of MEEKNESS, yet in 
a high place of expression, but humbling Him­
self to the lowest degree of expression. Behold 
the LAMB of GOD!
,‘And I looked and behold a LAMB stood on 
the Mt. Sion, and with Him an hundred and 
forty and four thousand. These are they 
which are not defiled with women, for they 
are virgins.’
To Show Men Their GOD
The LAMBLIKENESS, the MEEKNESS, the 
LOWLINESS of GOD in evidence—the lowest 
expression of the animal kingdom, classified I 
Him inspirationally. I classified Him as the low­
est expression in the animal kingdom among all 
of the different animals.' GOD coming down to 
the animal kingdom as a Sample and as an Ex­
ample for humanity, to teach them the spirit of 
MEEKNESS and LOWLINESS of heart, and 
yet to show them their GOD. There is where 
you find your GOD, in MEEKNESS and the 
MEEKEST and the LOWEST' places;  there is 
where you will find your GOD as a REDEEMER
1 0 The  NEW DAY September 1st, 1938
and SAVIOR of you all; but you cannot find 
GOD as a REDEEMER and SAVIOR in the high 
and lofty places, but in the MEEKEST and the 
LOWEST places of expression as the parable 
was speaking, even through John in the wilder­
ness when he said,
‘Behold the LAMB of GOD, Who taketh 
away the sins of the world.’
When John the Revelator had been converted 
after John the Baptist had made this prediction 
or assertion,f ‘ Behold the LAMB of GOD Who 
taketh away the sins of the world’; or when John 
the Revelator was converted and recognized 
GOD, he was carried away in the spirit on the 
Lord’ s Day, in the fulfillment of that of which 
John the Baptist had requested of all of them 
who would come after him, which was fulfilled 
in his experience as he was carried away in the 
spirit on the Lord’s Day. He said, ‘ I looked and 
lo, a LAMB stood!’  which was to say,
‘ Behold, a LAMB stood on the Mt. Sion. Be­
hold, I beheld a LAMB on the Mt. Sion in the 
lowliness of expression, yet highly exalted in 
expression’;
but on the high mountain of exaltation, He stood 
LOW in expression and in the spirit of MEEK­
NESS He stood in humility; as a lamb He stood 
as an expression of even the timidity of the ani­
mal kingdom, refusing to be vicious and destruc­
tive or self-protected in His endeavors.
Copy After the Fashion 
A lamb will not even try to protect himself, 
but he is fearful, he is timid and he is afraid of 
the wolves and other animals that may seek to 
destroy him. Nevertheless, such an expression 
is the thing for which I am calling! I have called 
this into your consideration for the redemption 
of humanity, the LAMBLIKENESS of GOD in 
evidence; such an expression not only as the re­
demption of humanity, but as a Sample and as 
an Example for them, that they might copy after 
the Fashion I am now showing them on the Mt. 
Sion.
As the reality of the parable, I showed them 
on the mountain, when I told Moses to tell the 
children to copy after the fashion I had shown 
them on the mountain. The prediction was ful­
filled in Revelation, but it was a reiteration of 
the prediction of GOD showing them a Sample 
and an Example—to behold the tabernacle after 
the fashion I had shown them on the mountain 
in the old Bible; but in the latter clause of the 
New Testament, GOD in His revelationic pre­
diction through John as a revelator, was telling 
them of what would be in the fulfillment of thatwhich was predicted in the experience of Moses 
being requested to build the tabernacle after the 
manner and the fashion I had shown him on the , 
mountain.
How glorious it is to KNOW your GOD!  Build 
upon this Foundation! You see the reaction of 
the fulfillment of the tabernacle, and you are 
the tabernacles of which I am building up in 
this recognition and in the consideration of the 
experience of the revelationic prediction of John 
as he predicted it and saw it as in a revelation 
on the mountain.
Now you can see the Scripture being fulfilled 
in your daily experience and you can see the 
reality of that of the MEEKEST expression in 
evidence, as the REDEEMER and SAVIOR of 
humanity. He could not be a SAVIOR in the 
high and lofty places of expression; His Expres­
sion was the MEEKEST and LOWEST place in 
expression, but a LOFTY place in Honor on the 
Mountain. He stood high;  but yet in expression, 
the LAMB stood LOW and MEEK, LOWLY in 
HEART and MEEK in MIND, as a REDEEM­
ER and SAVIOR of all mankind!
The Parable of Zacchaeus
Then I say, it is an expression for you who are 
My followers and others who follow the Foot­
steps of CHRIST as exemplified and as por­
trayed before you all! As I quite often speak 
of the daily experience of My followers paying 
all old bills, returning all stolen goods—all of 
this is fufilled for the purpose of showing man­
kind, GOD is the Fulfiller among them, for in 
the days of Jesus when Zacchaeus climbed up 
the sycamore tree; he went up there as he was 
small in stature. Being small in stature, he de­
sired to go up that he might see above the press, 
yet he was very wealthy. He went up mentally 
and spiritually in the parable, that he might see 
Jesus as He passed by. What said Jesus?
‘Come down, for this day I must abide at
your house.’
Why, he said, ‘I will give half of my goods to 
the poor, and if I have received anything from 
any man through false accusation, I will restore 
such fourfold.’  Can you not see the fulfillment 
of the Scripture among these My true and faith­
ful? They are the reiterators of that particular 
experience, although Zacchaeus, as an individual, 
was an individual, but predicting the coming gen­
eration and of how all would be converted unto 
your SAVIOR and would copy after the fashion 
of Zacchaeus, in doing that of which GOD by in­
tuition had requested, to go and give half of your 
goods to the poor, not only so, but if you have
September 1st, 1938 The  N E W  D A Y II
received anything through false accusation, re­
pay such a person fourfold.
This was an expression and an assertion made 
by Zacchaeus; a place for Jesus to abide, a place 
made ready for CHRIST to abide; a place where 
they would do even as he had. Come down and 
let GOD abide with them, by doing that which 
is just and right in the sight of men and adjust­
ing matters satisfactorily; by doing those things 
which they had done wrong,—RIGHT them, by 
making RIGHT their wrongs and adjusting mat­
ters satisfactorily.
He said, ‘ If I have received or taken anything 
from any man by false accusation, from anyone,’  
or words to that effect, ‘I will restore him four­
fold.’  That was the mystery and the parable of 
which was to be fulfilled! You are now the ful- 
fillers of this Scripture, yea, of that particular 
quotation; but Zachaeus, as an individual, was
PEACE Thank You, FATHER
JESUS CINTRON

a predictor as an individual, of the. reality of 
that which would be fulfilled, although as an in­
dividual he was an individual fulfiller; but Jesus, 
as an Individual, considered abiding at his house. 
So it goes to show you, there is the place you will 
find your SAVIOR as the REDEEMER and SA­
VIOR of man.
Take these thoughts to consideration and build 
upon this Foundation and consider in connection 
with the two quotations, especially Zacchaeus’s ex­
perience according to Saint Luke, 19:1-8, and ac­
cording to Saint Luke, 12, you will find these 
quotations' for consideration, you will find those 
of the true and faithful are the fulfillers of those 
reiterated quotations, as we are the reiterators; 
for they were iterated by them and predicted as 
individuals, but you as individuals in this Dis­
pensation, are the fulfillers and the reiteratora 
in expression. 

DO NOT MARVEL AT THE MONEY SPENT FOR ME BUT AT THE  
SOURCE AND THE CREATIVE FORCES THAT  
ATTRACT THESE THINGS
THE MILLIONS ARE FOLLOWING ME BECAUSE IT IS THE SPIRIT OF LOVE  
THAT HAS CONVERTED THEM AND CHANGED THEIR MINDS
"OUR FATHER’S MESSAGE”  
AUDITORIUM  
BRIDGEPORT, CONN.
THURSDAY EVENING  

It is a true saying that ‘good things come to 
them that wait on the LORD.’  Little did the 
children who were attending the Righteous Gov­
ernment Meeting at Bridgeport know that their 
Precious Redeemer was flying through the night 
in the Duesenberg to pay them a surprise visit. 
A surprise visit it was indeed as most of the 
New York children thought FATHER was still 
in the Promised Land, as HE had just recently 
left the city. For this reason, there were only 
a limited few at the meeting to greet the LORD 
when HE arrived. Nevertheless their unbounded 
joy and enthusiasm made up for the apparently 
small number.
FATHER also sprang another surprise on the 
angels when HE stole out to the meeting hall 
without anybody seeing HIM. The meeting had 
let out as soon as FATHER had arrived and con­
sequently the hall was completely deserted when 
FATHER made HIS Personal Appearance. 
Therefore great was the surprise when a few 
angels wandered out to the auditorium and found 
their LORD and MASTER seated by HIMSELF 
waiting patiently. After this it did not take long 
for the rest of the crowd to discover where their 
KING was and a Wonderful time was had by 
all.
GRACIOUS REDEEMER, WE THANK THEE 
FOR THY CONDESCENSION!
(The foregoing statements come from the tran­
scriber, after which FATHER Speaks as follows:)
PEACE, EVERYONE:
I arise to say, in reference to the first and the 
last speakers’  statement, in which they said, the 
people are stirred, and the first one mentioned 
the people being stirred as they were in trying 
to build the tower up into Heaven; they are 
stirred about MY Business; for when they try 
to build up into GOD’S Understanding and upinto the foundation of the Heavenly state of ex­
pression, why, there they will find confusion; 
for they are trying to fathom out and measure 
out GOD’S BUSINESS of which is none of their 
business!
If they will learn to attend to their business 
and leave MINE alone, they will be better off as 
far as those things are concerned; nevertheless, 
through MY Condescension to reach them and to 
speak to them in their own language, I have 
spoken very plainly,—I still speak plainly. I have 
shown them in actions and in deeds, it is not as 
they would take it to be.
‘ It is not by power nor by might, but by MY
SPIRIT, said the LORD!”
The millions and millions who are following 
ME are not following ME by the fanciful words 
nor the fantastic speeches I AM making, but they 
are following ME by the SPIRIT I have given 
them and the UNDERSTANDING through MY 
Mind transmitted, and as with their following 
ME without any consideration of remuneration, 
love offerings, donations and compensations or 
commissions, even so they come, they go; they 
follow ME because it is the Spirit of LOVE that 
has converted them and changed their minds 
and caused them to be discontented unless they 
are with ME or where I AM!
Then if they wonder where do I get so much 
money from, why is it they do not wonder where 
I get so much LIFE from, so much ENERGY, 
so much AMBITION, so much LOVE and DEVO­
TION in the people for ME! Where do I get the 
something, whatsoever it is, that will attract 
the minds of the people? Even the great and the 
most insignificant, the small—you find the Spirit 
of MY Presence is calling them all. If in a 
strange city or town, even little children will 
come around looking at ME as they did today 
and I said, ‘What are they looking at ME for? 
Why do they want to see ME ?’  After the manner 
of men I look the same as they do! I AM one in 
the midst of them. I look the same as any other 
person without any disfigurements, without any 
guise or garb or anything of that.sort to make 
MYSELF attractive.
14 T he NEW DAY September 1st, 1938
GOD’S Magnetism
Then why is it they watch ME so? They say 
they want to see ME. What do they want to see 
ME for? You can tell the world,I forbid MYSELF 
to wear anything that is very attractive, any­
thing that is very appealing!  For this cause then, 
what do they wish to see ME for more than they 
do any other person? Why is it they do not stop 
to consider those things? Nevertheless, to them 
and to the world at large I have made it plain; 
GOD in the midst of the children of men will 
attract the attention, the ambition and the en­
ergy of all things, even the inanimate things of 
life; they are attracted and they are drawn to 
ME; for as GOD is the CREATOR, the AUTHOR 
and the FINISHER, the things of HIS Creation 
are attracted to HIM automatically by HIS Mag­
netism !
Then I say, do not marvel at the dollars and 
cents that have been spent for ME or concerning 
ME! Do not marvel at the finances in any way 
whatever, but marvel at the SOURCE and the 
creative forces that attract these things and 
draw them to ME. That is the thing they 
should marvel at! Hence, if they would stop and 
consider that trying to lift their minds up into 
Heaven and measure GOD out concerning HIS 
Mental and Spiritual Activities, will keep them 
in confusion as were the children of men in build­
ing the tower to Heaven;  if they would stop and 
consider those things, no doubt it would be better 
for them; for as with ME so with them, if they 
will produce the Life of CHRIST and bring such 
a Principle of RIGHTEOUSNESS, of HOLINESS 
and of INTEGRITY, of TRUTH and of ZEAL 
and of COURAGE, to fruition; for the same is 
expressive, the same is operative, the same is 
functionable;  it can be expressed and it can be 
manifest! Men can express it if they live it and 
stress it; if they DENY THEMSELVES WHOLE­
HEARTEDLY and RECOGNIZE GOD’ S AC­
TUAL PRESENCE by doing the same as they 
believe GOD would do!  By so doing, the very 
Spirit of MY Presence will enact in them and 
will cause them themselves to be the CENTER 
OF ATTRACTION—not only for the masses as 
people collectively, but for the thing with which 
they are and were connected.
Everything Visible Is Subject to Gravitation
It is a privilege to realize, that which is expres­
sible, that which is visible, it is ‘attractable’ —it 
can be attracted by the MAGNETISM of, or by 
the GRAVITATION that is in the earth. Neither 
of these two great expressions of power seen 
and yet unseen ;  unseen without expression, but 
seen in expression—the gravitation of the earth 
reflects itself in the act of attraction; it willattract things and draw things down to itself, 
to the earth. The MAGNETISM of GOD’ S IN­
FINITENESS will ATTRACT things and draw 
things of HIS Creation to HIM! For this cause 
JESUS said,
‘And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, I 
will draw all men unto ME!’
The prediction through the ages, yea, even 
the message, came before the prophetic age say­
ing,
‘The Scepter shall not depart from JUDAH 
nor the law-giver from between His feet un­
til SHILOH comes; but when SHILOH comes, 
the gathering of the people shall be unto 
HIM!’
Jesus Spoke concerning the identical mystery 
and said,
‘Where the carcass is, there shall the eagles 
be gathered,’
‘wheresoever the BODY is’  whichever, ‘there shall 
the eagles be gathered together!’  By inspira­
tion, you, MY Followers, have caught the mys­
tery in the composition by the transposed ver­
sion of the quotation, but yet meaning the reality 
of the statement as given, but giving it in its true 
interpretation,
‘ Where the BODY is, there the ANGELS 
are!’
‘Where the ANGELS are,’  transposed I your 
statement or singing, ‘there the BODY is!’  It is 
JOY and PEACE and HAPPINESS where the 
beautiful, true and faithful and devout Angels 
are.
Others Can Have the Magnetism 
Then I say, it is a privilege to observe the 
mystery and recognize GOD’S ACTUAL PRES­
ENCE throughout eternity with you! Then I 
say, if they will live it and express it by stress­
ing it vividly with the spirit of sincerity and by 
being in harmony with ME, they will also attract 
things and draw them to' them, both of the men­
tal and the Spiritual realms, as well also as the 
material things. They will attract money if it 
is necessary! Those who are MY True and Faith­
ful Followers who are living exactly according 
to MY Teaching, in these' few brief years_ I have 
Personally been with them, though through 
trials and tribulations they have been obliged to 
come; through many tribulations, through many 
toils and through many snares' add through the 
many divers expressions they have come; I have 
lifted them and caused them to become' INDE­
PENDENT as the ‘ first born among many Breth-
September 1st, 1938 The  N E W  D A Y  if.
ren,’  lifting them and showing them conclusively, 
the reality of true independence as your Country 
declared it!
The Country declared her independence as a 
nation! Thousands and thousands who are called 
American citizens are farther advanced intel­
lectually than some of MY Followers are;  never­
theless, they fail to express their REAL AMERI­
CAN CITIZENSHIP because they fail to live ac­
cording to MY Teaching; hence they are in lacks 
and wants and limitations instead of being in­
dependent! MY Followers are producing the 
spirit of independence and leaving it behind them 
as a sample and as an example for others to 
come.
Then I say, if they live according to MY Teach­
ing, they will not have an occasion to fret nor 
worry about MY Finances, because they them­
selves will demonstrate the finances that are 
necessary to meet their obligations and to render 
them, or produce the spirit of independence in 
them and cause them themselves and among 
themselves to be independent, even as we are. 
Then I say, it is a privilege to observe the TRUTH 
as I reveal it!
Christ Came in the Understanding
‘GOD in the midst of you is MIGHTY to 
SAVE!’  In LOVE and MERCY CHRIST came! 
This does not mean to say CHRIST came from 
some place geographically; GOD HAS ALWAYS 
BEEN WITH YOU, but CHRIST came as HE 
comes into the understanding of the people. 
CHRIST came as HE comes and HE will come 
as HE came, coming into the understanding of 
the people, into their recognition and realization 
of HIS Actual Presence where they were not 
conscious of GOD’S PRESENCE before; hence, 
GOD had not come into their consciousness and 
the recognition of HIS Presence; hence, to them 
GOD had not come.
Then I say, as I come into the recognition of 
the people and into the realization of the same, 
the Spirit of MY Presence expresses •  itself effec­
tively for them even as it does for ME; for MY 
Spirit, MY Mind, MY Life, MY Love, MY Pres­
ence, all of these are IMPERSONAL, they are 
as GOD IS by Nature. GOD is IMPERSONAL; 
hence, they are IMPERSONAL and you as in­
dividuals and others, as W ell as you, can be 
partakers of them and prove to the world con­
clusively, GOD IN REALITY IS IMPERSONAL! 
When this is established vividly in your memory 
you will not have an occasion to doubt nor fear 
nor fret nor worry: for the very Spirit of MY 
Presence will be with you to answer every prob­
lem and to adjust every matter satisfactorilyeven as I have adjusted it here and satisfied de­
sires effectively. That is the mystery!
If they could and would but stop and consider 
all things are IMPERSONAL! Men envy others 
even in the same category they are living in! 
Why is it they envy others? Why are they jeal­
ous and why are they covetous? It is because 
they are not true to themselves and they dis- 
recognize the reality of equalization. Equaliza­
tion and Righteousness as put forth into expres­
sion by the ALMIGHTY, will equalize all things 
by the spirit of equalization and will give each 
.and every individual a just and an equitable 
adjustment according to MY Plan and Purpose. 
When you know GOD deals in the affairs of men, 
those of MY Followers and others will get away 
from all superstition, from all sense of envy, 
from all sense of doubts and fears, from every 
tendency of expression that would tend to slight­
ly reflect on them as though they could not or 
would not have the opportunity to do as others. 
You have a better opportunity in a great measure, 
to do things you desire to do than others; for 
man has his opportunity in expression when he 
is active according to his version, but according 
to MINE,
‘ Man’s extremity is GOD’ S Opportunity!’
and GOD’S Opportunity is your opportunity if 
you are ONE with the One Who has the op­
portunity! That is the mystery!
Your Opportunity
‘ Then I say, GOD will express through you if 
you, as an individual, shall have come to your 
extremity; in other words, when you, as an in­
dividual, shall have come to your extremity. 
The extremiation of one’ s self as an individual 
will give GOD an opportunity; hence, the op­
portunity that GOD has within you, GOD will 
then express INFINITELY within you as though 
it is you, of which will be imputed to be your 
opportunity because you had come to your ex­
tremity.
Then I say, you who are extremiated, if you 
stop and consider, you have an opportunity in 
your SAVIOUR! The Apostle said in speaking 
concerning the mystery:
‘I can do all things through CHRIST Who
STRENGTHENETH me!  ’
The extremiation of yourself as an individual 
will give GOD an opportunity for expression; 
and when GOD expresses within you, you and 
others too will see distinctly, GOD is the PER­
FECT and ACCURATE EXPRESSER and HE 
will do it in you if you will let HIM! That is the 
mystery! Then I say, extremiated as you may be,
1$The  N E W  D A Y September 1st, 1938
it is that you have an opportunity for expression 
in the NAME of the ONE Who Liveth FOR­
EVER! That is the mystery! Then you may be 
handicapped and in the limitations, the adverse 
and the undesirable conditions; the obstacles and 
the barriers and the thoughts and all of this ex- 
tremiation—they are for the advancement of the 
Kingdom of GOD within you and for the advance­
ment of GOD in expression in you, that you 
might observe the expression of the ALMIGHTY 
when you shall have come to your EXTREMITY!
Then I say, it is not necessary for a person to 
feel as if though he is limited; to feel as if 
though he does not have the privilege nor the 
privileges of others. Such an assertion in one’s 
self is detrimental; it is the lack of the recogni-
PEACE I Thank You, FATHER

As we sat in the Banqueting Hall, in the 
PRESENCE of the OMNIPOTENT ONE, a great 
scene was staged without the premeditation of 
man, without a single moment’ s notice, but by 
the Will of the INFINITE Spirit of CHRIST, FA­
THER DIVINE. A great Spiritual tidal wave 
swept through the Extension, and a Spiritual 
eruption burst forth into expression. Like unto 
a whirlpool, for instance, the happy God-con­
scious assembly was now experiencing a tremen­
dous change in the Spiritual atmosphere. 
Through the sincerity of an angel who grateful­
ly thanked CHRIST, her LORD, fof bringing her 
to “the PERSONAL BODY” from the west 
coast, a contact was made with the Power House, 
and instantaneously all of those Temples which 
were kindredly connected with the Power Plouse, 
responded to the automatic flashing of the 
switch, and a Spiritual symbolical Whirlpool au­
tomatically and instantly presented itself, to hold 
and to draw all of its lesser power into its em­
brace'. The ..angels recognized this great force of 
Power of GOD, emanating directly from His 
Own PERSONAL TABERNACLE as very sig­
nificant, while the visitors and strangers became 
almost awe-stricken at this seeming new expres­
sion of latent Power. It was an expression of 
Righteousness portraying what would come up­
on the earth in the extreme reverse, if wicked­
ness would continue to prevail, and it man would 
neglect to accept the PRINCE of PEACE, FA­
THER DIVINE, the SAVIOUR of them all. In­
stead of a Righteous Combustion within the Do­
mains of the Righteous, the destruction of the 
wicked, will be the ruin of civilization, if the 
LORD of HEAVEN is not recognized by every 
living creature universally, and the remnants of 
this advanced civilization will be demolished be­
yond recognition.For this great and dynamic scene, and for Thy 
unbounded Love in this Message of TRUTH and 
POWER, CHRIST, Our LORD, we humbly thank 
THEE.
(The foregoing statements are those of the 
transcriber, after which FATHER speaks as fol­
lows:)
PEACE, EVERYONE:
(“Peace, FATHER DEAR!” responded the 
jubilant assembly.)
GOOD HEALTH! GOOD WILL! a GOOD AP­
PETITE! GOOD MANNERS and GOOD BE­
HAVIOUR, and all of your appetites fully sup­
plied, so long as you are self-denied.
At this instance I arise to say, “it is good to 
be here.” These are the words of the apostles: 
“It is good for us to be here,” one said. “Let us 
build three tabernacles: one for Moses, one for 
Elijah and one for THEE.” In the unfoldment 
of these vibrations and expressions, you may see 
the different appearances of different personali­
ties and individuals appearing in their divers ex­
pressions, but it is something to consider as it 
was revealed to Peter on the Mount of Transfigu­
ration.
Peter, James and John,, they saw as though 
it were three men appearing on the scene, Moses, 
Elijah and Jesus, the CHRIST, the Son of the 
LIVING GOD. Jesus in Person, as He was, yea, 
as HE is, but Moses and Elijah, they merely ap­
peared. This was merely an appearance of 
Moses and Elijah, but it was the reality of Jesus. 
They thought, for an instant, that they should 
build three tabernacles because of the great 
work Moses had done and the great work Elijah 
had done, and the great Work Jesus was doing.
“Let us build three tabernacles; one for Moses, 
one for Elijah and one for THEE,” said he; but 
what said the “inspirations” message as trans­
mitted from the Heaven apparently?
“This is My Beloved Son, in whom I AM 
well pleased: hear ye Him.”
The divers expressions of the ecstasy of the di­
vers Religions may appear on the scene as a vi­
sion or a revelation in this great Transfigura-
18 The  N E W  D A Y September 1st, 1938
tion, as a sketch and as a reflection of the real­
ity; but the realness of all things must come 
forth into expression, and that which is merely 
an appearance of a personality or of an individ­
uality must disappear. The reality must remain.
The Church Shall Remain Constant  
Moses and Elijah on the Mount of Transfigu­
ration in the vision disappeared and left Jesus 
among the three alone to remain. The Voice de­
scended as though it were descended from Heav­
en, saying to Peter, James and John, although 
they had fallen as dead men:
“This is My Beloved Son in whom I AM well 
pleased: hear ye Him.”
There is another occasion and another experi­
ence of today. There are many expressions of 
the ecstasy of the Religions, and the conscious 
conviction of millions coming in their respective 
personalities and individualities presenting them­
selves psychicly as representatives in this great 
universal scheme of things; but the Voice still 
remained,
“This is My Beloved Son in whom I AM well 
pleased: hear ye Him.”
It has long since been declared by Christen­
dom:
“Kingdoms shall rise and wane, but the 
Church of CHRIST constant shall remain.”
How glorious it is to know it is true; although 
this was an inspiration as a composition coming 
down to you, it is and it was according to the 
Scripture, yea, the prediction as was given by 
the prophets, the sages and the seers, for it has 
long since been declared even through the Pro­
phetic Age:
“In the days of those kings,”
It was speaking of now:
“In the days of those kings shall the LORD 
of Heaven set up a Kingdom and it shall not 
be left to others.”
David declared in his “Psalmic” prediction, as 
though it was an assertion he was making, when 
he was speaking on that particular instance:
“The LORD REIGNETH: let all of the earth 
rejoice; worship HIM all ye gods.”
The gods of the earth universally must recog­
nize the .PRESENCE of your SAVIOUR. I can 
see the gods of men failing. The mighty dollar 
has failed them. Mighty men have failed them. 
Can you not see politics failing? Can you riotsee sociality failing them? Can you not see all 
of these divers expressions and versions of men 
which they set up on which to lean, they all are 
failing them? They must recognize the AC­
TUAL PRESENCE of GOD and worship at the 
Holy remembrance of His PRESENCE.
The Ship Is Sailing on
I can see the kingdoms rising and waning, but 
I can see the Kingdom of GOD ascending above 
criticism, above ridiculism, accusations and ad­
verse and undesirable conditions, for GOD is on 
board the Ship. GOD is the Pilot, the Naviga­
tor, navigating “the Ship of Time” through the 
trials and tribulations of men on the stormy, 
tempestuous sea which man has created for him­
self and for themselves, the winds and doctrines 
of men in opposition to the FUNDAMENTAL 
for which we stand; but the Ship is sailing on.
It was declared by millions in this present dis­
pensation, yea, in this present generation, “GOD 
ALONE SHALL REIGN, and none shall hinder  
HIM.” Through GOD’S Condescension, coming 
in the likeness of men, in their respective like­
ness or appearance socially, intellectually and 
through ignorance, through the illiteracy of the 
ignorant, GOD speaks and acts according to the 
mortal versions of men, in the language that HE 
might understand them, and that they might un­
derstand HIM. Through these different angles 
CHRIST came, but all oppositions may arise, but 
they will wane, “for greater is HE Who is with­
in you, than all that are the things which can be 
against you.” '
Then I say, the kingdoms shall rise in opposi­
tion and wane, and while I was sitting thinking, 
I thought of how the great politicians, how great 
men of today, just a few years ago, they were 
riding high. The higher you are, the greater is 
your fall. The more great is your fall when you 
go up in an aeroplane about two or three thou­
sand feet and fall, you see ,. . . the more great 
will be your fall.
Men Have Exalted Themselves
Men have exalted themselves up into Heaven 
and have attempted to ignore the PRESENCE 
of GOD completely as they did in the beginning 
of the creation, when they were all of one lan­
guage and of one speech. They thought they 
would build a tower up into Heaven-, parably 
speaking, of the mighty, the lofty, the self-ex­
alted and the great. As they looked upon the 
small, they saw themselves going up in the ma­
jority, looking little and belittling upon the mi­
norities, looking criticizingly and accusingly up­
on the under-privileged and the non-privileged.
I saw them ascending! I saw them building,
September 1st, 1938 The  N E W  D A Y 19
building a mental and a Spiritual, yea, even 
building a political tower up into Heaven to con­
trol all of the universe of finance and all of the 
people under their jurisdiction; but I said a few 
years ago, “every unjust official shall be moved 
out of office.” I shall root them out! I shall 
turn and- overturn until the time has truly come, 
for the One to Whom it is due shall rule on the 
throne of the minds of men. Aren’t you glad?
Can you not see this PRINCIPLE as a stand­
ard coming forth into expression; and GOD lift­
ing the PRINCIPLE up as perfection that all 
might copy after the PRINCIPLE and adhere to 
the Message?
No Persons Can Hinder
Oh, it is a privilege to live in the ACTUAL 
PRESENCE of GOD, and as declared by millions 
of Mine, “GOD ALONE SHALL REIGN.” All 
other powers and kingdoms in opposition may 
rise, but they all must wane, and GOD ALONE 
SHALL REIGN. There are not enough powers 
in opposition in the earth nor in the Heaven, if 
they were, in opposition, to hinder the FUNDA­
MENTAL, for GOD is the CREATOR, the AU­
THOR and the FINISHER. Aren’ t you glad?
Then I say, the different expressions of our­
selves as expressers and as demonstrators and 
as manifestors of the divers expressions, all of 
them may come forth into expression, but GOD 
must be reckoned as Perfection and all must copy 
after the PRINCIPLE, the Standard which I 
have lifted.
Oh, it is.a privilege I say, to live in the AC­
TUAL PRESENCE of GOD! You can see the 
great men, those who were called great men, 
failing today. That is why I say, if you are 
great, if you are superior in your consideration, 
it is essential to be mindful how you entertain 
the most insignificant and be careful to deal 
justly between people, and judge all. people with 
equity, for if you do not, those things will fail 
you on which you have been leaning, “for the 
arms of flesh will fail you, I dare you to trust 
your own.”
Take these thoughts to consideration!  Men 
in politics today, men of great authority, men of 
divers walks of life and all expressions, of di­
vers professions and divers degrees of the dif­
ferent professions, they feel themselves exalted 
and feel they are in places where naught can 
touch them; but remember, when they ignore 
GOD’ S PRESENCE, GOD shall bring them down 
beneath His PERSONAL Level, if they ignore 
GOD’S PRESENCE, I say, much less than that .  
of criticizing it and ridiculing it through ridicul- 
ism. There are thousands being molested and 
embarrassed for such an expression; for “what­soever you' measure to others, you shall gain the 
same in return, for the same will return an hun­
dredfold more to you, than that which you have 
measured.
Trying to Lift Themselves to Heaven
As I said, in the beginning they were all of one 
language and of one speech, but divers tongues 
came forth into expression; hence, the divers 
languages through self-exaltation, by men ex­
alting themselves; as in the parable of the “Tow­
er of Babel.” They were trying to build a tower 
up into Heaven, in the parable, parably speak­
ing, by trying to lift themselves so far above, in 
this day, the under-privileged and the non-privi- 
leged, and to keep them down. They were using 
this method to go above all mankind, and their 
languages changed, when they were firstly of one 
language and of one speech.
This is My Mission; this is what I AM doing: 
I AM bringing all mankind back to “the Garden 
of Eden,” from whence they were driven, where 
they had built this tower up into the Heaven, and 
their languages changed, and then they created 
nationalities, races and colors and every other 
detestable and cursed expression of division;  but 
I have come to abolish and bring an abolition of 
all division saving one, and that is between males 
and females. In the beginning GOD created HE 
males and females. There was one division and 
the only division in the beginning of the crea­
tion. I shall bring you back to this considera­
tion, and I shall cause all nations to reckon such 
a consideration;  but so far as races,' creeds and 
colors and every detestable division, such as the 
“other fellow” created, I shall bring a complete 
abolition to such, and we shall have a RIGHT­
EOUS Government universally.
As it is on My Immediate Staff and under My 
Personal Jurisdiction, so shall I have it univer­
sally, if the people live upon the face of the earth, 
for this was for the people and through the peo­
ple as a Government transmitted. This Govern­
ment from Heaven must be inculcated and rein­
carnated. It must be enacted. It must be es­
tablished and all other governments that are not 
according to the FUNDAMENTAL, shall perish 
from the earth. Truly might have Abraham Lin­
coln said, “The Government for the people, 
through the people and by the people will perish 
from the earth” unless they come up to certain 
requirements, as related by him. I re-declare 
the same, so long as there is division and preju­
dice existing among the nations of the earth, and 
so long as they will under-privilege and non­
privilege some because of the races, creeds, na­
tionalities and colors, such as were created by 
“the other fellow.” I shall continue to turn and
20 The  N e w  D A Y September 1st, 1938
overturn; cast down and cast out unjust officials 
until the time shall have truly come, they will 
reckon this FUNDAMENTAL and seek It for 
selection and make their selection and election 
as the only Principle that has been lifted to be 
as a standard worthy of the presidency.
Only GOD in Control
Oh, it is a privilege to observe it! I was say­
ing the other day—no longer ago than yesterday 
—it is absolutely immaterial to ME through 
Whom GOD reigns and has control, so long as 
it is GOD in evidence, in actions, in deeds, in 
Characteristics, in Nature and in words, and in 
all you do and in all He says.
A Principle shall be lifted, and men shall get 
away from the mortal versions of things; go­
ing by the mortal lineage of mortality, for such 
is detrimental to all humanity. Get away from 
your mortal lineages, for they are detrimental. 
Recognize your immortal standard of expression, 
for GOD is your FATHER, and you never had 
another. In the most insignificant, according to 
the flesh, after the manner of men, so far as line­
ages are concerned, you will find GOD. GOD 
came in the Name of Jesus as being termed, “the 
Son,’’  as one insignificant among men. For this 
cause, HE was born out of wedlock, that He 
might not give the Glory to mortality, the flesh, 
but that ALL of the Glory might go to GOD. 
Aren’ t you glad?
As a Sample and as an Example CHRIST came, 
the First-born among many brethren, neverthe­
less, the second birth is of the Spirit . . . the 
first birth was of the earth, earthy. It is not 
necessary for men to be bom physically as Jesus 
was born, but it is necessary for them to take 
on His Characteristics, His Nature, His Dispo­
sition and become to be new Creatures in reality, 
here and now while they are living.
This is the second birth of which I AM speak­
ing. This is the second birth of which Jesus was 
speaking when He said:
“Except a man be bom again, he cannot see
the Kingdom of Heaven.”
Nicodemus was born after the manner of men, 
in some great lineage among them. He-was con­
sidered a great man, according to the versions 
of men and according to his profession, but yet 
there was something lacking;  and that something 
was “the new birth,” in the likeness of -  Jesus the 
CHRIST, for the purpose of leaving all fleshly 
and mortal pedigrees and degrees behind profes­
sionally, and coming to your destination, that 
GOD might come forth in evidence; for “man’ s 
extremity is GOD’S Opportunity.”Extremiated
I came “extremiating” man, beloved ones. If 
not men generally, as a Person I AM “extremi­
ated.” From a Personal point of view, I AM “ex­
tremiated,” so far as man is concerned, for I have 
been low-rated beneath the level of the non-privi- 
leged; beneath the level of the illiterate, beneath 
the level of the ignorant. I have been low-rated 
from every angle expressible, that GOD might 
come forth into expression and show HIS MAJ­
ESTY, DOMINION and AUTHORITY and exer­
cise Perfection for the people.
“Man’ s extremity is GOD’S Opportunity." The 
Religions have been saying it from your early 
days of your Religious career, but they did not 
know the mystery. If they had, or if they did, 
they all would have sought to have been illit­
erate and ignorant and then give GOD a chance . 
and an opportunity to express and manifest HIS 
OMNISCIENCE. Aren’ t you glad?
“Man’ s extremity is GOD’S Opportunity.” “Ex- 
tremiate” yourself, if you please; eliminate your­
self, if you please; bring yourself, according to 
the mortal version, to your destination. Even 
Paul was obliged to do it before he received it. 
Before he received his honorary Spiritual De­
gree, he was obliged to disrecognize himself and 
count all he. knew, or had known as an intelli­
gent man—or as a super-intelligent man, as 
naught as being termed what it reads according 
to the word, that he might gain CHRIST and the 
Power of the Resurrection. Everyone of you is 
obliged to do it, or else you cannot cooperate 
with ME.
John the Baptist, he was obliged to lose his 
head. He could not stand in the PRESENCE of 
GOD. John the Baptist’s head was in his way. 
That is just the way it is with thousands of them 
today, their heads are in the way. If they lose 
their head, why, then they can hear what I say; 
and then and only then, will they My Words 
obey, for they will feel, according to their heads, 
that what I say is wrong, for it is not according 
to the versions of men. It is not according to 
their theories and doctrines, such as they have 
learned. Can you not see the mystery? There­
fore, I AM wrong, so. far as the versions of men 
are concerned. Their theories and their doc­
trines are according to their ideas and their opin­
ions, and the ideas and the opinions of others, 
but you see the results they are getting by their 
erroneous thinking, by their erroneous versions, 
ideas and opinions that have been leading them.
Above Human Wisdom
Truly might have the prophet declared, “The 
leaders of the people have caused them to err, 
and they that are led by them are destroyed.”
September 1st, 1938 The  N E W  D A Y 21
That is the reason for the ministers, the major­
ity of them criticizing ME, because they know 
“I came as the poorest among men, yet making 
many rich.” I came as the most illiterate and 
ignorant among men, yet making many super- 
intelligent. As “the DEAN of the universe,’7  de­
clared to be, I teach Wisdom transcending all hu­
man intelligence. I teach from the FOUNT of 
GOD'S OMNISCIENCE and cause it to continue 
flowing freely. That is the mystery. That is 
why they cannot understand ME, and that is the 
reason for their criticism. Aren’ t you glad ? But 
as I say, men and kingdoms will rise and wane, 
but the Truth shall throughout all eternity stand.
As I said in that Message which you heard 
read—proof-read, whichever—if GOD can be a 
failure, then let HIM fail. If anything can pro­
hibit ME, let it prohibit ME. If I-can be stopped, 
let them stop ME. Anything that can be stopped 
should be stopped, for that which is “stopless” 
should continue. If anything can be killed, it 
should be killed, for that which is death-proof 
should remain. Aren’ t you glad? If GOD is 
not death-proof with or without a BODILY 
FORM, HE must go and come again until He 
comes in an expression where HE is death-proof, 
and can remain.
If GOD is not failure-proof, HE must fail; 
then HE should fail and something else should 
come that can prevail. Get Him out of the way. 
Any God that can be gotten out of the way, get 
Him out of the way. Aren’t you glad? If GOD 
can be moved, then let Him be moved, and let 
something come that cannot be moved. Aren’ t 
you glad?
Not Representing Matter
I say, upon this Foundation if you will stand, 
you cannot be shaken by the versions of men, 
and you certainly cannot be hindered by them. 
I AM the same with or without a BODILY 
FORM. I AM not representing matter, materi­
ality, I AM not representing personality, I AM 
not even representing My Own Individuality, or 
else I might be limited, but since I AM not rep­
resenting any of these psychic expressions, I ex­
press INFINITELY, as being the INFINITE. 
That is what it is all about. Then with or with­
out My BODILY FORM, I will be carrying on 
in the hearts and minds of these, and ruling and 
reigning on the throne of the minds of millions, 
in them and in their affairs, where naught can 
hinder ME there. Aren’t you glad?
Build upon this Foundation; then and only 
then, will you be with ME; for what said the 
“revelationic” prediction of John?
“I looked, and Io a Lamb stood on the Mount 
Zion.’’  John declared, “And lo, a Lamb stood."He did not say, “High a lamb stood, when He 
was on the Mountain in high places, but lo a 
Lamb stood, and with HIM was an hundred and 
forty-four thousand, having their FATHER’ S 
Name written in their foreheads. Can you not 
see, the millions the universe over, have MY 
NAME uppermost in their consciousness?
Take the Name with You
Oh, it is a privilege to observe the mystery of 
having GOD’ S NAME uppermostly in your con­
science and in your consciousness at all times. 
Then I heard Christendom say,
“Take the Name of Jesus with you,
Child of sorrow and of woe;
It will joy and comfort give you;
Take it then where’er you go;”
but the transposed version for this dispensation 
and for these My Followers who have been lifted 
is:
"Take the Name of Your FATHER with you, 
Take the Name where’ er you go;
It will in joy and comfort keep you;
Take the Name wheresoever you go.”
Oh, it is a privilege to observe your GOD! With 
or without a Bodily Form, GOD shall eternally 
reign, and none shall hinder HIM. Then I say, 
“Take the Name;” for on the Mount Zion with 
HIM was an hundred and forty and four thou­
sand, having their FATHER’S Name written in 
their foreheads. “These are they who were not 
defiled with women.” Can you not see the sep­
aration from sex and sex affection? What said 
He? “For they are virgins.” They are redeemed 
from among men, for they are not mortal-minded 
as they have been. Instead of loving man they 
love HIM. Aren’ t you glad? Their minds are all 
concentrated on the FUNDAMENTAL—on GOD, 
of Whom you say I AM—GOD in the name of the 
Lamb on the Mount Zion. That is where they 
have their minds. Aren’ t you glad?
Upon this Foundation, if you will stand, naught 
will be able to hinder; GOD will be with you 
now, henceforth and forever: GOD will be your 
refuge and your strength. Aren’ t you glad? And 
as said Christendom: “I am married to Jesus, 
never more to part.” This is not a physical con­
tact. It is a mental and Spiritual contact, like 
unto the Birth of which Jesus was speaking, 
when He spoke to Nicodemus of a man being 
born again. Both birth and marriage are equiva­
lently the same. They are closely connected, 
Dear Ones; therefore, the one who is born again, 
just as he is born mentally and Spiritually, he is 
also married the same. You are married to the
22 The  N E W  D A Y September 1st, 1938
LAMB, and with HIM you will ne’ er depart; from 
HIM, they will ne’ er depart; therefore, I say, 
they are with HIM on the Mount Zion, and the 
Lamb is the LAMB of GOD. Aren’t you glad?
The Marriage Supper of the Lamb
Then this is “the Marriage Supper of the 
LAMB,” of which they have been speaking. John 
spoke of it also on another occasion in his “rev- 
elationic” prediction. He saw “The Marriage 
Supper of the LAMB.” It was a parable, parably 
speaking, in his “revelationic” prediction, telling 
you of how there would be a Marriage Supper 
of the LAMB, when you as human beings would 
be married to GOD.
Now this is not matter nor personality, nor 
individuality, but you are married to a Principle 
that cannot be defeated; a Principle that can 
eternally be with you and be your Companion 
wheresoever you are, and naught will be able to 
hinder. As I said in the beginning, they were 
redeemed from among men. As men, you are 
redeemed from among men, and as women, you 
are the same. As men, you are not defiled with 
women, for you are loving GOD. You use all 
of your energy, all of your mentality, all of your 
ambition and all of your zeal and all of your 
courage loving GOD. That is what it is all about. 
You are merely fulfilling the First and the Great 
Commandment, of which all of the Religions, 
in a great measure, have overlooked.
“Thou shalt love the LORD your GOD with 
all thy heart, with all thy Soul, with all thy 
mind and with all of thy strength."
If this is done, how can you have any of it, even 
a percent of a fraction of it to love mortality, 
human affection, lust and passion and other ex­
pressions of the mortal version? How can you 
love man or love women if you are loving GOD 
whole-heartedly?
This is a hard saying, but yet it is true, and 
it shall be fulfilled universally, even as it is ful­
filled among you, and mankind universally, those 
who are called women, and those who are called 
men, they shall love GOD whole-heartedly and 
concentrate all of their mind and all of their 
attention on the FUNDAMENTAL, and they will 
resent any expression that would tend to attract 
their attention in opposition to the FUNDA­
MENTAL.
No Deception 
“In their mouths is foimd no guile.” The “be- 
guilation” of Eve:—deception—will no longer 
have an existence, for she had conceived mentally 
and Spiritually the spirit of “beguilation;” there­
fore, she beguiled Adam; but in your mouths will 
be found no guile. In your mouth of your daily ac­tions and expressions you will leave “guilation” 
behind. Deception you will not practice. You 
will not attempt to deceive others in words, deeds 
nor actions, but to the contrary, you will estab­
lish TRUTH, HONESTY and INTEGRITY and 
will express HONESTY in all of your activities.
The “beguilation” of Eve transmitted has been 
in access and has had a free access in mankind, 
both men and women since the “beguilation” 
of Eve was in evidence; but on the Mount Zion, 
John in his “revelationic” prediction, he declared, 
“in your mouths is found no guile.”
Now “actions speak louder than words.” In 
your actuated words of expression you will find 
your mouth of expression expressing these ac­
tional words, and you will not have them filled 
with “beguilation,”—deception. You will express 
the truth. You will not try to be dishonest and 
appear to be what you are not. You will not 
try to make men nor women think you are more 
than what you really are.
The false conception of men, their divers cus­
toms and rules and regulations, their ways and 
actions are filled with “beguilation,” trying to 
make you think and make others think they are 
what they are not,, wearing all sorts of false 
things because they are false in mind and in 
heart. They try to appear to men and to women 
to be what they are not. That is what guile 
really is,—an expression of deception in your 
actuated words of expression and in your daily 
emotions, trying to appear to men to be true 
when you are not. All sorts of false things men 
wear, and women wear to appear to be as they 
are not, instead of appearing to them decently 
but intelligently, expressing just what they really 
are.
No Longer Pretending
This is what My Followers are doing. They 
are no longer trying to make pretend they look 
as they do not. They are no longer trying to 
make pretend they are of one nationality, one 
race nor one creed, nor one color, when they are 
not, according to the mortal version. They are 
coming boldly to a Throne of Grace, with the 
LAMB of GOD on the Mount Zion, and appearing 
to men just as they are, even as I appear as I AM.
I could do many things to make MYSELF 
Personally appear to be more than what I really 
AM, so far as man would take ME to be. I do 
not wear garbs and robes and a whole lot of 
foolishness, to appear to men as though I AM 
GOD and still be a man. I would rather appear, 
so far as physical appearance is concerned, the 
same as any other man and still be GOD, than 
to be beguiled firstly with the “beguilation” of 
Eve MYSELF, to try to make someone else think
September 1st, 1 9 3 8 The  NEW DAY 2 3
I AM GOD by My Physical Appearance. That 
would be a “beguilation”—the “beguilation of 
Eve” in My actuated words of expression, try­
ing to make MYSELF appear in some way that 
I AM not. That is an expression of “beguilation” 
in the mouth of your actions and expressions. 
That is the mystery!
Then I say, I refuse to do it; therefore, I ap­
pear as I AM. Aren’ t you glad7  GOD seeks 
the honesty of the heart; the hearts and minds 
of the children of men with the spirit of honesty 
and sincerity. By this GOD can and will bless 
them. That is what it is all about.
I do not tell My Followers, “you should not 
smoke a cigarette.” I do not tell them, “you 
should not,” or “you must not straighten your 
hair;" I do not tell them, “you should not try to 
appear to men in expression in appearance to be 
what you are not,” but “I put My Spirit in them, 
and they walk in My Statutes” automatically, 
without My telling them. That is the mystery!
The Bit and the Reins
Not a real Follower of Mine would smoke a 
cigarette. Aren’ t you glad? For I put My Spirit 
in them, then they will not do it. That is the 
mystery of James speaking about “Behold! we 
put bits in horses’  mouths.” I put My Spirit in 
them; My Spirit is the bit, and My MIND is the 
reins. Aren’ t you glad? I hold the reins in the 
Hollow of My Hand. I control.  them by My 
Spirit, and My MIND, since My Spirit is in them. 
That is the mystery! That is what it is all about! 
That is why they love ME so.
First be true to yourself, then you can be true 
to your GOD. If you are true to your GOD, you 
are true to everyone else. That is the mystery! 
Therefore, you will get rid of all deception and 
all “beguilation” and all such expressions, all 
that which “beguilation” brings, and GOD HIM­
SELF will be in evidence in your hearts and in 
your minds, in your words, in your deeds and in 
your actions;  hence, you will be truthful, not only 
in words, but your bodies will be true, for you 
will be telling ME just who you are, and just 
what you are, without any “beguilation,” without 
any “disguisation,” without being disguised in 
any way whatsoever.
Many times men try to disguise themselves.
I could try to make MYSELF look pretty too, 
but I forbid! I AM just what I AM; and you see 
ME as I AM, as I have heard some say, “I see 
YOU as YOU is.” It matters not what they say,
I understand them. They may make gramma­
tical errors, for I make them with them for a 
purpose, that they might understand ME; that 
I might be with them in their grammatical errors,and erroneousness; that I might lift them, and 
that they might lift ME. Aren’t you glad?
I speak! I act! I stand! I go! I come! I fill all 
space and I AM absent from none. That is why 
GOD in This Expression can express HIS OMNI­
POTENCE because HE is filling all spaces and 
is absent from none. If HE were limited to 
perfection as man classes perfection, why, HE 
would not be OMNIPOTENT, for there is some 
power in imperfection. There is some power and 
wisdom and knowledge in ignorance.
Oh, it is a privilege to observe the mystery! 
There is where the universe at large, the great 
men have missed it, by failing to get it. 

After the reading of a previous Message, FA­
THER arose to cordially invite the -visitors to 
participate in our Service, if they cared to, by 
repeating and extending the invitation to our 
visitors, as per the same in the Message just 
read.
One of the advertizers of “The New Day,” 
who apparently is suffering annoyance in his 
business, due to picketing, made it known to one 
of the secretaries that he desired to appeal to 
FATHER for help in this situation. In view of 
this fact, he was introduced by the secretary in 
the manner familiar to man, and the said party 
spoke briefly the situation, and requested FA­
THER’S Help in the matter.
FATHER delivered a very significant Message 
extemporaneously in behalf of the gentleman, 
and after having heard it, he is now in a position 
to know where the trouble lies; for what was 
predicted and declared by the LORD, so it must 
be. “If individuals fail to recognize this Move­
ment,” as said FATHER, “they must feel the 
effect of it, even if it is fifty years from now.” 
Some have already begun to reap the results of 
their thoughts and their attitude toward this 
MOVEMENT; hence, the aftermath spells the 
reaction of their true innermost feelings towards 
the PRESENCE and the Mission of the LORD, 
FATHER DIVINE. The Law of Compensation 
is accurate: its results are the telltale, and the 
same will be presented to the public by this in­
evitable law.
This is a great lesson, and from this experi­
ence of today, we are reminded of FATHER’S 
Own Words, “If I do not get you in the wash­
ing, I will get you in the rinsing.” GRACIOUS 
and COMPASSIONATE SAVIOUR, we thank 
THEE.
(The foregoing statements are those of the 
transcriber, after which FATHER speaks as fol­
lows :)PEACE, EVERYONE:
(“Peace, FATHER DEAR!” responded the en­
thusiastic assembly.) GOOD HEALTH! GOOD 
WILL! A GOOD APPETITE, with GOOD MAN­
NERS! GOOD BEHAVIOUR, all SUCCESS and 
all PROSPERITY. This, these and all other 
Blessings to you I bring.
As in the last Message just proof-read, so 
speak I this afternoon. I reiterate, I repeat, I 
say, those who wish to rise and speak, especial­
ly those of our visiting friends as,, strangers, if 
you desire to speak volitionally as we do, you 
are welcome to; if you do not care to speak vo­
litionally as we do, give us your name, address 
and profession, and we will gladly introduce you 
according to custom. I thank you.
(At this time, one of the secretaries intro­
duced to FATHER and the audience, a Mr. Gon- 
shak, who apparently is being annoyed with 
pickets. This Message of the LORD’S is self- 
explanatory and sufficient for the individual to 
trace the cause of the trouble, and to weigh all 
matters pertaining to him on “the Scale of Jus­
tice.” Hear ye, the Words of the LORD.)
The secretary’s introduction is as follows: 
Peace, FATHER: Peace, everyone:
I understand we have with us this morning, 
Mr. Gonshak, who has recently opened a new 
store on 125th Street. Mr. Gonshak is one of the 
advertizers in “The New Day.” Possibly Mr. 
Gonshak would have a few words to say. Thank 
YOU, FATHER!
Mr. Gonshak remarks:
“I do not know exactly how to approach this 
thing. I have opened up a new store on 125th 
Street, and am doing all that I can to do the 
right thing. We are doing all we can, the best 
we know. We have some pickets outside try ­
ing to disturb us, and there is nothing to do but 
to do the right thing, so I came to FATHER; 
maybe HE can help me in that matter, so that 
we can straighten out—so that we can do the 
right thing and try to go along with our busi­
ness so as to satisfy everybody. That is all I 
can say.”
FATHER speaks again:
PEACE, EVERYONE:
(“Peace, FATHER DEAR!” responded the 
happy assembly.)
26 The  N e w  DA,Y September 1st, 1938
Since there does not seem to be anyone else 
interested in saying anything, I would like to say 
to the last speaker, through harmonizing and co­
operation, all things are possible. We can over­
come every adverse and every undesirable con­
dition.
Through My Condescension a few weeks ago, 
I had an outdoor Demonstration—a public Dem­
onstration for all business firms, all organiza­
tions and all people, all of the different peoples of 
our communities and even of this Country to par­
ticipate in the Demonstration, as it was non-sec­
tarian, non-partisan, inter-denominational and 
international. If we come together through the 
cooperative system of organizing, we can over­
come every difficulty. All of the trials and trib­
ulations which we have to confront, we can over­
come each and all of them by harmonizing and 
by unifying ourselves together for one common 
purpose.
The invitation was sent out for all of the busi­
ness firms, organizations and different enter­
prises to participate in this great Demonstra­
tion, to show to those who would oppose them 
just what they are doing, if they are honest, 
competent and true; if they do not practice seg­
regation or discrimination in their business, pro­
fession and activities. I requested the honor of 
the different organizations, stores, business firms 
and all to participate in this Demonstration, that 
they might come boldly to the front, and tell the 
public, those who were pickets and would-be 
pickets; those who were critics and would-be 
critics; that they were doing the thing that was 
just and fight whereby men would not have 
ground to come in, in the way of criticizing, in 
picketing or by interfering with their business.
Live by This Teaching
If all of the different concerns will adhere to 
My Teaching, I will lift them above criticism, 
above adverse and undesirable conditions; for as 
with an individual, so with a nation; and as with 
a nation, so with all of the creation. If GOD can 
control the masses individually in an Individual, 
and can control the masses collectively, GOD can 
control them universally by living exactly ac­
cording to the Teaching as exemplified by HIM 
—by their living according to the Teaching. I 
could have said.
Now in this particular instance, this gentle­
man has come before us for cooperation, for en­
dorsement. As I have often said to those who 
may be taken in a fault and in an act of sin, the 
Scriptures declare: “He who covers his sin shall 
not prosper, but whosoever confesseth and for- 
saketh them”—in other words, “uncovers them 
and exposes them, shall have mercy.''I have gone to the prisons and talked with 
prisoners, those who were and would have been 
sentenced ' to capital punishment. When they 
accepted of My MESSAGE by an open confes­
sion of all of the sins they have done and were 
doing; and forsook them, I find that they found 
Mercy in My MESSAGE, and were delivered 
and freed from whatsoever condition they would 
have undergone.
As with the school, so with the business, pro­
fession, labor or trade, through cooperation and 
through harmonization. By individuals and or­
ganizations bringing themselves into subjection 
to the Great FUNDAMENTAL and by adhering 
to My MESSAGE; by copying after the Fashion 
I AM showing them, they can overcome all of 
the trials arid oppositions and will have victory 
over every difficulty.
All Segregation and Discrimination Abolished
Oh, it is a privilege to observe the mystery, 
and to see what can be accomplished by harmon­
izing! In our method of the cooperative sys­
tem; in our Religious and Spiritual; in our so­
cial and economic activities; whatsoever we rep­
resent; you can plainly see the abolition of all 
segregation and discrimination is, established 
among us. We are eradicating every appearance 
of segregation and discrimination.
The discriminatory practices cannot be exer­
cised among us at this high light of civilization 
and we expect to succeed in our activities. We 
must eliminate all such and express the unity of 
the Spirit, of Mind, of Aim and of Purpose. By 
so doing we will be successful and prosperous in 
all of our endeavors.
If I must speak as one of experience, can you 
not see how the oppositions have arisen against 
ME for the last eight or ten years? They have 
risen as severe and as high as could be, with all 
of the malicious and antagonistic statements 
that man can make, and all of the actions of 
men from every angle expressible. Men .have 
even sought to slay ME by paying these so- 
called preachers and great teachers as some of 
them who have been paid to broadcast in oppo­
sition to ME—great teachers and great preach­
ers, to say everything that they can or could 
imagine: yet the Work of GOD goes on.
, Driving “the Other Fellow Out”
Jus,t think of it! A few years ago, a man as 
an upstart in My Consideration, thought he 
could drive GOD out of New. York City. He 
broadcast over the radio from Washington, why, 
he was coming to New York to drive “the other 
fellow” out. Of course it is true, “the other fel­
low" should be driven out. That is what the
>
September 1st, 1938 The  NEW D A Y 27
Spirit is for, and if a man can drive “the other 
fellow” out, I AM glad to see him do it. Maybe 
he did drive “the other fellow” out. If he did, 
that is why there is nothing here but GOD now.
They have been paid to do all sorts of things 
to try to hinder the progress and the Spirit and 
Activities of the INFINITE among men, but it is 
a matter of impossibility for them to hinder 
HIM, for in all of their oppositions, criticisms, 
malicious statements and articles they have writ­
ten, and all of the activities of the divers mali 
cious individuals, I have proven victoriously a 
CONQUEROR over all of them.
As with ME as an Individual, so with you and 
all others. If you know you are right, then do 
right and remain right, and naught can hinder 
you. Just think of it! All of the great men, 
those whom you see failing today, they are the 
ones who rose in opposition to ME. “The wicked 
shall slay the wicked,” and all of the malicious­
ness and antagonism, the reaction of their mali­
ciousness and criticism with their antagonism 
shall fall upon themselves. Aren’ t you glad?
The Case of Hearst 
“Sow good seeds everybody, for you shall 
reap just what you sow.”
As I said a few years ago, when these news­
papers rose in opposition to ME, such as the 
Hearst papers, how does Hearst stand today? 
There are not enough powers on earth nor in 
Heaven, nor anywhere else that you may imag­
ine, that can rise against ME and stand. Aren’ t 
you glad ? Now you read in the press where his 
kingdom is tumbling down. Why? Because he 
rose in opposition to the FUNDAMENTAL; and 
just no longer than a little more than a year ago;  
and they will tell you even through the depres­
sion, why, he did not feel the effect of it until 
last, year, 1937.
In 1937, the most malicious attacks came 
through the press and through the finances of 
those who were malicious to the FUNDA­
MENTAL: there and then, his kingdom started 
tumbling. Aren’t you glad? It is written,
“Kingdoms shall rise and wane,
But the Church of CHRIST 
constant shall remain.”
What said Jesus concerning this particular mys­
tery; yea, the Spirit of My PRESENCE trans­
mitted? “Upon this Rock, I shall build My 
Church, and the very gates of “the other place” 
shall not prevail against it.”
Then I say, harmonize with ME. I AM not 
speaking of harmonizing with ME for a selfish 
purpose, but harmonize with the FUNDAMENT­
AL for which I stand. Build upon this Founda­tion, and I will- help you, for the very spirit of ex­
pression is as operative and as expressive for one 
as it is for another. Aren’t you glad? That 
which I have expressed, all of these things are 
impersonal, and all of .the Blessings are imper­
sonal; therefore, by you as individuals living and 
expressing according to same, the same will be 
your portion in all of your activities and in all of 
your endeavors; for you as individuals will be 
able to get victory over your trials and tribula­
tions even as I have it.
Opposers Must Fail
Just think of it! It may have sounded like 
folly for ME as an Individual, being so insignifi­
cant, to speak as I have spoken, and to say as I 
have said: those who rise in opposition to the 
FUNDAMENTAL, they must go down. Even if 
it were the Government of this Country, if it did 
not stand for ME whole-heartedly, the kingdom 
of this Country, yea, it shall perish from the 
earth. Anything that does not stand for the 
FUNDAMENTAL of which I AM, and stand in 
harmony with the Principle and the Standard 
that I have lifted, why, they must fail; they must 
go down. Aren’ t you glad?
Kingdoms shall rise and wane, but My Work 
shall continue. It shall remain. 'When I speak 
concerning MYSELF, the same I impute to you.
; Live and do as I do and be as I AM;  the same 
will be your portion through harmonization; for 
all of these Blessings are impersonal.
Just think of the mystery of this Truth!  Think 
about it being impersonal! Just think of what­
soever you do, do all to the Glory of GOD; do 
all unselfishly; do all impersonally, and GOD 
will abundantly Bless you and place you in a 
place in consciousness where it is a matter of 
impossibility for you to be a failure. Knowing 
this, that this is an impersonal affair, it is an im 
personal issue. All of your activities and all oth­
ers’  activities are impersonal, even if you are not 
conscious of it.
You may think personally; you may think 
selfishly; why, naturally you will think personal­
ly if you are selfish. Personally, you should not 
hold in your concept the slightest consideration 
of anything, for the very Spirit of GOD’ S PRES­
ENCE by Nature, even nationally in this Coun­
try transmitted, is “E Pluribus Unum”—one com­
posed of many; the United States of America. 
They are supposed to be—or in other words, 
they are alleged to be, united together.
All Impersonal
The very nature of all things should be un­
selfish, and should be an expression of absolute 
unselfishness^ When you express hbsohitely uri-
28 The  N E W  D A Y  September 1st, 1938
selfishly, your activities and all of your work 
and mission will be impersonal and whatsoever 
will be good for you will be good for others, and 
that which is good for others will be good for 
you. By this it will be a matter of impossibility 
for you to be a failure.
We cannot stress this thought too vividly; for 
as American citizens we should live it. We should 
live “E Pluribus Unum.” We should live U.S.A., 
United States .of America. The Government 
thereof, or hereof, whichever, should be in our 
activities and in our nature; the unity of Spirit, 
of Mind, of Aim and of Purpose; and put forth 
in documents for each and all of us. Live in this 
expression. If you as a person, cease to func­
tion personally the reaction of such an expres­
sion will be as expressive as it can dare be by 
you as a person; therefore, that which you have 
endeavored, if you are unselfish will be accom­
plished just as effectively as it could dare be, if 
you can carry out your plan and your purpose.
Live unselfishly and be impersonal; for GOD 
by Nature is Impersonal and even as Imperson­
al as GOD is even so should you be. There are 
those of us in business and in our divers profes­
sions, the different organizations, a good many 
of them who ignore the consideration of “E 
Pluribus Unum.” They ignore the consideration 
of the United States of America. They ignore 
the consideration inscribed on our coin as an in­
scription: “In GOD we trust.” They fail to ad­
here to these particular documents and inscrip­
tions as inscribed. They fail to recognize them 
when they are in business and in the divers or­
ganizations and institutions, but if they would 
stop and consider, these are the FUNDAMENT­
ALS that are well worth considering.
No Matter How High, They Must Come Down
As I was saying to My co-workers this A. M.;  
it matters not how great a man might be, the 
meeker he should be—the kinder such men 
should be. They should be more hospitable; they 
should be more loving in their actions and ex­
pressions, instead of being exalted up to the 
Heaven in their manner of profession or business 
or in the financial world, and feel themselves 
better than others: for, matters not how high 
they go, they must come down.
Then I say, as business men, as organizations 
and as professionals, consider the most insignifi­
cant, consider the ant, if you please! What said 
Wisdom in the name of Solomon?
“Go to the ant, thou sluggard: consider her
ways and be wise.”
Oh, it is a privilege to observe the mystery! 
The most insignificant and the most unconsideredis the thing to consider. Wisdom was the only 
thing or the only expression of GOD HIMSELF, 
of which came through Love and Mercy. Con­
sider such a thing as an ant, so insignificant; 
but what said the Spirit of Wisdom through the 
mouth of Solomon: “Go to the ant;" go to the 
little ant; go there and study. Consider! said 
the mystery.
He is insignificant, it is true; he is non-con- 
sidered;  he is not thought of; he is not even im­
agined unless he gets into something; but the 
wisdom of the ant surpasses that of humanity’s 
understanding. “Go there and consider your­
selves and be wise.”
To Help Business Men and Organizations
Oh, it is a privilege to observe the mystery! 
Live in this recognition, if you please. Build up­
on this Foundation with the spirit of sincerity 
and GOD will abundantly bless you and give you 
victory over every difficulty, over all of your tri­
als and tribulations; for GOD HIMSELF is with 
you. But I did make a special invitation to all 
business firms, organizations and enterprises to 
consider this Demonstration, that we had for 
the purpose of warding off and' staying off all 
such as strikes and such as pickets, such as men 
organizing themselves organizationally for pick­
eting against the different enterprises, of busi­
ness and organizations. I did it for the purpose 
of helping them.
If they would have turned out with ME as I 
requested, for their own good, they could have, 
without cost on their part, advertized something, 
if they are true. If they are not using discrim­
inatory practices in their business and organi­
zations and institutions, they could have turned 
out. If they would have turned out, they could 
have convinced all others they are not segregat­
ed, and they are not prejudiced. By so doing, it 
would have warded off many things that have 
arisen, and will rise in opposition; and we are 
not merely going at the little fellows, we are go­
ing at the largest institutions and organizations 
in the world.
Must Recognize the Fundamental
It matters not what size of company the divers 
companies may be, they must recognize ME, or 
fail. Aren’t you glad? It matters not how 
great you may be professionally, intellectually, 
politically, socially, legally or otherwise, unless 
you recognize GOD from this angle of expres­
sion—I mean recognize the FUNDAMENTAL 
for which I stand, of Whom you say I AM—they 
all must fail; but if they adhere to My MES­
SAGE, everyone will be lifted out of depressions, 
lacks, wants, adverse and all undesirable condi-

tions. They will have the victory in business, 
profession, labor and trade. They will have the 
victory in all of their activities; for “if GOD is 
with you, who can be against you?”
Jot these thoughts down in your vocabularies. 
Stamp them in your memory, if you please, and 
consider the Message I AM freely giving. I AM 
giving it for each and every organization, insti­
tution and every enterprise, whether they be, or 
even if they are, Religious: I say, even if they 
are Religious enterprises. I speak after the man­
ner of men. I speak concerning life’ s existence 
on earth, for GOD has something to do with all 
of those things.


“The many million followers of Mine, and be­
lievers, having given Me their lives and all they 
have possessed, does not mean that they gave 
it to Me as a person, neither have these things 
come under My Personal Jurisdiction. When 
they say they have given Me anything or all they 
have, they are not speaking of giving Me any­
thing Personally, for they can tell tjie world at 
large, I do not need it as a Person. ...” (Mes­
sages of 1933.)
The interview then continued as follows:
MR. GLENN:—But now with the growth of 
your properties and the followers in Ulster Coun­
ty, and with the spreading of Your economic the­
ories, You expect that Ulster County will becomethe nucleus for the spreading of the Promised 
Land over the entire Nation, and that it will be­
come to be accepted by men, as we know it now, 
as a practical way of life, and as a tangible re­
ality ?
FATHER:—“Yes, that is My method, and that 
is exactly what I am endeavoring to accomplish 
by vividly stressing it in actions and in deeds, 
until all of the politicians and those who are in- 
authority will be obliged to sit up and take no­
tice, and take cognizance of that which I am do­
ing, that they might do the same for the benefit 
of many.”
A Great Shake-up Coming
MR. GLENN;—Is there any significance in 
what some of the followers have said among 
themselves, that 1940 or thereabouts may see 
GOD’ S work further extended over the land?
FATHER:—“Positively! I think it is being 
further extended to-day."
MR. GLENN:—But I mean, Father, too, a 
great shake-up of material things as we know -  
them.
FATHER:—“Positively! That which has been 
spoken volitionally and inspirationally by those 
who were extremiated and did not have a foun­
dation nor a background to speak from, they 
are speaking from the Inspiration of GOD with-
September 1st, 1938 31 The  N E W  D A  If
in. Therefore they are speaking in the inspira­
tion^ expressions, making predictions volitional- 
ly of the Truth that will be fulfilled.”
MR. GLENN:—That is Wonderful, FATHER. 
FATHER:—‘‘ It IS Wonderful!”
MR’  GLENN:—I feel we are burning You FA­
THER, with these terrible lights.
FATHER:—“Well, I am willing to stand it for 
the benefit of you all. I hope, Mr. Bird, this will 
adjust matters satisfactorily.”
MR. BIRD:—Yes, it will, and I am sure grate­
ful to You for doing it for us. We know the dif­
ficulty of having to treat Your Message accord­
ing to newspapers’  deadlines, etc. That is what 
caused the difficulty.
Direct Information by Attending Meetings 
FATHER.—“Now I would like to say, if you 
attend the different Meetings, you see, you can 
get more direct information when it comes voii- 
tionally, as I aforesaid; for that is My real Self, 
the same as I am now. As a rule, I am speak­
ing about the time others are ready to go, you 
know, the same as when I was talking to you. 
That is the time I come forth into expression. 
The reality of My Impersonal Self moves in an­
swer, to the questions and I usually give them vol­
untarily before they are asked.”
MR. GLENN:—Father, in that regard, we 
have a great number of reels, as we say, of Your 
Messages, and it would be a great privilege if 
you did find Yourself some day moved to come 
and look at some of them in our projection room.
FATHER:—“Well, I would appreciate it, but 
it is very hard for Me to get off at times. I was 
saying, if you could show it at some place where 
I would ordinarily be, it would be wonderful, and 
I would appreciate it very much.”
MR. GLENN:—Would You be moved to say 
anything further about that statement which 
was read by Mr. Lamb a while ago, Father?
Governed by Highest Intuition 
FATHER:—“Those words were spoken years 
ago, and to speak them over again according to 
the will of men, they might not come forth voli- 
tionally and convincingly as they do when they 
come forth voluntarily. That is the mystery! 
That is why I teach My followers to be governed 
by their highest intuition in practically every­
thing.
“Now when they come to Me and question 
Me, ‘May I do certain things?’  even such as this 
particular issue of selling their insurance poli­
cies: why, at times they say, ‘Must I do this?’  I 
say, ‘It is up to you.’  I say, ‘You were unfor­
tunate to have an insurance if you did not care 
to, or do not care to keep it.’  I say, ‘ You are justunfortunate to have that insurance; but if you 
wish to do so, it is also up to you.’  Now I say, 
‘ If you wish to let them go’—some of the fol­
lowers actually burned their policies, lots of 
them, five or six years ago. They did not try 
to receive a penny from them, and neither did I. 
I would not even encourage them to receive it.
“ I have said quite often, it is the same as any 
game you happen to be in; why, if you happen 
to be in a gambling game—any of the gambling 
games—if you lose money, you are just a loser. 
I have often stressed it. -Hence, it is just to the 
extreme reverse of what men say concerning Me. 
I have striven to bar every penny away from Me 
that would even come in My direction apparently, 
and in the direction of the followers especially 
— I mean in that way.”
MR. GLENN:—Have we asked Father all the 
questions we want to bother Him with?
FATHER:—“I think You will get plenty more 
if you wait; because, as I often say, the Spirit 
will reveal it. It will come forth into expression 
and give you the answer more distinctly than it 
could if you asked a question and I gave you the 
answer according to your question.”
MR. GLENN:—I am sure of that, Father, 
after the wonderful experience I had on the trip.
Questions Answered in ‘The New Day’  
FATHER:—“I think you will find quite a lit­
tle answer to your questions in nearly every is­
sue of ‘ The New Day.’  ”
MR. GLENN:—Yes, I want to get it from 
now on. I think Mr, Lamb has put me on the 
mailing list. My difficulty, Father, is this, that 
others are as journalists of the written word, 
but I am a journalist of the picture, and without 
the picture of it as it actually happened, I can­
not carry on my work.
FATHER:—“Sure, but in the meantime I was 
just thinking, now you have many statements I 
have made, and many excerpts from the differ­
ent lectures. You know these are the words I 
have said. You can quote them, you see, and the 
pictures could follow the quotations, and the quo­
tations could follow up the pictures, you see.” 
MR. GLENN:—But when you quote on the 
screen, if the person involved is not being quoted 
himself, you are open to the accusation that you 
are twisting phrases and Words. But if the per­
son himself says it, then there is no question 
about it.
FATHER:—“That is true.”
MR. GLENN:—I have lost the trend of 
thought You gave me up-at SamsOnville . . . Fa­
ther, I know that You have raised a great many 
people who were in want and could not lift them-
32 r/ie  NEW  DAY  September 1st, 1938
selves, and that You have spoken a language 
they could understand, and they have under­
stood it and have been able to raise themselves. 
I have noticed lately that You have spoken also 
more in the terms of men who move about in 
the business world, in order that they might also 
understand and think positively. You will speak 
more in those terms as time goes on, even as you 
have spoken to business men in their terms, at 
the same time retaining all the flavor of the 
Spirit. Is not that true?
Human Languages Inadequate
FATHER:—“Yes, it is. I speak in the lan­
guage of men with whom I come in contact. It 
matters not what class or profession as a rule, I 
speak according to the general masses and ac­
cording to their respective languages. I often 
speak of the actuated language we speak. I will 
speak in actions and in deeds more stressfully 
than those of words. Words of the human lan­
guage in all of the earth’s vocabularies are in­
adequate to unfold a percent of a fraction of a 
grain of the mystery of the reality of GOD’S 
actual Presence.”
MR. GLENN:—Then without all of these 
robes, colored glass, and brick churches, and 
what have you, and without pretending to be 
something that some people would like to believe 
they are, You have done Your work, and made 
Your Philosophy, Ideas, and Messages a living 
reality.
FATHER:—“That is My plan and purpose. If 
I do not accomplish it effectively universally, I 
am endeavoring to do so.”
MR. GLENN:—I mentioned the mystery, and 
that is what You told me: the fact that You did 
not use all of those gadgets to surround Your­
self with goodness.
The Greatest Expression for Others 
FATHER:—“Yes, I have endeavored to make 
Myself more a reality than I appear to be, in­
stead of trying to make Myself appear to be more 
of a reality than I really am. I think if every­
body would consider that thought it would be 
the greatest expression in life for the good of 
others, even as they convey such thoughts 
throughout the universe. I think we can speak 
in actions falsely, we can speak in emotions and 
expressions in falsehood. I think it is our duty 
to be truthful and honest in all of our actions, 
expressions, words and deeds, for actions speak 
louder than words.”
MR. GLENN:—Then there is nothing super­
stitious, or fantastic, or slightly mystical in Your 
Messages like there is in so many religions so- 
called i but it. is a reality because You dress likemen, talk like men, and move in a way. that they 
can understand.
FATHER:'—“Positively! I endeavor to pro­
duce the reality in .all of My dealings, all of My 
words, and all of My actions, and refuse to re­
flect any shadowy expressions.”
MR. GLENN:—Now just a few minutes, and 
we will not bother You any more, Father.
FATHER:—“That is a wonderful thought. 
Really, it is true, because I think it is all fool­
ishness, for a person in My stand or status, to 
try to appear to be more than what I really am. 
Let Me appear to be less than what I am, and 
be in reality more than what I appear to be. In 
that, I am not deceiving others, I am not a false 
pretender, I am not telling an untruth, I am hon­
est in My actions and in My expressions. If I 
try to appear to be a good man by putting on 
a garb or by putting on a long sanctimonious 
face, I may appear good to men but I may not 
be in reality good to them. Therefore, I am false 
in My actions, I am dishonest in that which I am 
doing.”
MR. GLENN:—That is right. I love the way 
You -put it, that by the very absence of these 
things, men who otherwise would-not think that 
You represent what You do, they may wonder 
if You are not truly what You are represented 
to be. That is quite a little joke on them.
Management of the Extensions 
MR. GLENN:—Father, this is more of a ques­
tion of structure and machination than anything 
else. Now how is the business end, or the eco­
nomic end of each Extension and each country 
place for example, run? Who is the head of the 
Extension? Does that person do the purchas­
ing, and the distribution, and the handling of it, 
and are there records kept for the general me­
chanical structure and information of the or­
ganization ?
FATHER:—“I think each Extension, or Mis­
sion, or business place, or whatsoever they may 
be, is run absolutely independent of all other Ex­
tensions or business places. Those different Ex­
tensions in the Promised Land, such as the Tea 
Rooms, the Grocery Stores, and other places, 
the different individuals own and operate these 
different places and run them independent of all 
other Extensions or business places.”
MR. GLENN:—But if one Extension needs 
something that the other Extensions produce, 
that is passed over without remuneration as a 
rule, as a part of the cooperative system?
FATHER:—“Well, not necessarily. They sell 
at a very reasonable price, beneath the prices 
that merchandise is sold elsewhere for.”
September 1st, 1938 The  N E W  D A Y 33
MR. GLENN:—And the Grocery Stores are 
able, by buying in great amounts, to get cheaper 
rates from the wholesalers, and can therefore 
sell at the lowest prices?
FATHER:—“Well, in one sense of the word 
they do. When they are not fortunate enough 
to get special prices by buying from wholesalers, 
they are willing to make sacrifices'to sell at Di­
vine prices, which we call evangelical prices.’' 
MR. GLENN:—And any surplus, does that go 
to the followers, or does some of it go back to 
defray the expenses of the general organization?
Each Extension Is Independent 
FATHER:—“There is not any such thing as 
a general organization. Each individual unit is 
an independent unit. Each individual owning 
and purchasing a piece of property, after it is 
purchased, it is then the property of the indi­
vidual himself. It is an independent unit; it is 
not in any way obligated to the other connec­
tions where I may be represented as Father Di­
vine's Peace Mission. It is merely known as Fa­
ther Divine’s Peace Mission Movement because 
of the Spirit and the Teaching of CHRIST as ex­
emplified by Me.
“Those of My followers who have selected My 
teaching as the Fundamental and have endeav­
ored to put into practice the Golden Rule ac­
cording to, My teaching, it is commonly known 
among the people as Father Divine’ s Peace Mis­
sion. But there is no such thing as any surplus 
coming back to any headquarters, as has been 
said by people who did not understand the Move­
ment. Not at all! Not on any occasion! Each 
individual unit is an independent unit. If you 
yourself, or any other person, would desire to 
buy property together with one or two more, 
that particular unit would be an absolutely inde­
pendent unit, but it would be your privilege if 
you wished to, to adhere to My teaching as em­
phasized by Me.”
MR. GLENN:—Just one more question I want 
to ask; as You so beautifully told me yesterday 
—about Your followers not smoking.
FATHER:—“It is nothing that I especially 
say they should not do, but they are governed 
intuitively at that, more than they are by what 
I Personally tell them. I do not tell them, ‘ You 
would not’  or ‘You should not drink liquor,’  or 
‘ You should not smoke cigarettes.’  I do not tell 
them they should not do any of those things, 
even as much as the Ten Commandments tell 
them not to do it.”
MR. GLENN:—In other words You live the 
Ten Commandments instead of commanding, and 
they follow You.Concentrating on Perfection 
FATHER:—“That is right! I live them and 
put them into expression, and stress them so viv­
idly it causes the followers and believers to viv­
idly visualize Me, and while they vividly visualize 
Me they produce the spirit and the meaning of 
such commandments in them, and they become 
to be partakers of them. So that is the mys­
tery !
“While My followers do not smoke, while they 
do not drink, while they do not live after the 
manner of the custom of men according to the 
human affection, it is merely because they refuse 
to' concentrate on anything .else less than that of 
perfection. Hence by concentrating on the per­
fect—the thought held in consciousness—it tends 
to produce the spirit and the meaning of such in 
them.”
MR. GLENN:—Well, it is Wonderful! I no­
tice that I have heard You rejoice greatly in the 
fact that they do not smoke, but You never said, 
‘ Do not smoke.’
FATHER:—“I rejoice in the fact that they 
do not, but I do not tell them, ‘You shall not.’  ” 
MR. GLENN:—Well, is.the prohibition among 
many sects, and is Your own teaching on such 
things as cigarettes and liquor, due in part to 
economic considerations ?
Smoking and Drinking Not Constructive 
FATHER:—“Positively! There are thousands 
of people who spend thousands and thousands of 
dollars, the universe over, through self-indul­
gence in these unnecessary habits. These hab­
its may not be merely a sin, as it may be termed 
by a good many of the religions, but yet they are 
unnecessary and they are not constructive. Hence 
they become to be a habit among the people, and 
as a rule almost all immodest people, and im­
moral people, use those habits. They have those 
habits, you see. For this cause, from a psycho­
logical point of view, these immodest habits and 
customs at times carry mental and spiritual 
germs of immodesty in them, and if you accus­
tom yourself to those certain habits you also 
become to be partakers of the nature and char­
acteristics of those who are accustomed to using 
and expressing those habits. See the mystery?” 
MR. GLENN:—Yes, it is very well worth con­
sidering.
FATHER:—“It is a psychological thought ap­
parently, and the psychologists should be able 
to observe it, because the same as a person con­
descends to use a certain word, the nature or 
the characteristics of such persons who are ac­
customed to using those words will be reflected 
to such a person who continues to use such
34 The  N E W  D A Y September 1st, 1938
words. As with the evil, so with the good. By 
the constant use of ‘Peace,’  and the constant 
use of 'I thank You, Father,’  you produce the 
spirit of progressiveness, success and prosperity,- 
because the characteristics of these are devel­
oped and manifested in those who are accus­
tomed to using such words.”
Extensions Partly Self-sustaining 
MR. GLENN:—Father, then the Extensions 
are self-sustaining in part from the rentals of 
$2.00 a week, and from the meals that are served 
to the outside workers leading the life and living 
at the Extensions?
FATHER:—“Yes, they are to a certain ex­
tent, so far as I understand. Of course, a good 
many of the places, I have not heard exactly how 
they stand, but some of them I have heard just 
how they stand. I am sure the majority of them, 
or most of them, whichever, are free from all 
debts, and free from buying anything on the in­
stallment plan, or credit, or anything of that 
sort, because it is a violation of My teaching, and 
all of My real followers are endeavoring to ad­
here to My teaching.”
MR. GLENN:—But they can keep their sav­
ings in banks, or make any investments as long 
as they are honest and aboveboard?
F A T H E R “Well, positively! They do just 
what they wish to do with such things, at least 
with the returns and the means. But it has 
been so arranged and pre-arranged, it is a mat­
ter of impossibility for them to profit very much 
—I mean to profiteer very much—in this method, 
because they sell everything at such small prices 
it is a matter of impossibility for very much 
profit to be made.”
MR. GLENN:—And the middleman has been 
more or less eliminated?
FATHER:—“Yes, the middleman has been 
eliminated, and many other unnecessary ex­
penses have been eliminated, and for this cause 
they can be successful enough to meet their ob­
ligations, and by living economically and evangel­
ically, why, naturally, there are many things 
they refrain from using and spending their 
money for. Hence they can use their money in 
a constructive and in an-unselfish way.”
The Promised Land a State of Consciousness 
MR. GLENN:—Father, what' is The Promised 
Land?
FATHER:—“We may term The Promised 
Land to be a state in consciousness in My exact 
consideration, although a place geographically 
may be set apart from time to time for the work 
of Righteousness to be exemplified in thoseplaces, and brought to fruition in the conscious­
ness of the people.”
MR. GLENN:—But as it applies to Ulster 
County physically ? .
FATHER:—“Well, of course, the whole of 
Ulster County has been set apart by the Spirit 
of My Presence as The Promised Land, for the 
purpose of the unfoldment of Righteousness as 
exemplified by us, and this to be developed into 
actuality in a practical, scientific, and in a profit­
able, and yet a non-profiteering way of expres­
sion.”
MR. GLENN:—And it will be extended over 
the whole Country?
FATHER-—“Positively! It must be, for it is 
the plan that was foreordained before'the foun­
dation of the world, that it should be established. 
Hence it must be according to the Promise of 
GOD: ‘Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy 
work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the 
Lord thy GOD.’  This, of course, we may term 
to be in words, talk; but we consider it is well 
worth considering to put into practice GOD’S 
Word and make our Righteous rule practical.


PART ONE
There are too many persons who have stood 
in the way of others because they sought to help 
others when they were not in a position to do so. 
How can you give to one something of which 
you, yourself, are not the possessor? If an in­
nocent person has been led to believe that you 
are better informed than he is, about things 
which he seeks to know; if you are not quali­
fied to speak intelligently and comprehensively 
on such topics, there is no harm in admitting 
that you do not know what he is desirous of 
knowing, or that you cannot explain intelligent­
ly from his angle of expression, so that he might 
understand. "Silence is golden.’’  Hence, it is 
far better not to give any information when you 
cannot give it accurately, than to give errone­
ous statements and references to those who may 
be diligently seeking information. You may ig­
norantly, but well-meaningly, be a stumbling- 
block to some sincere soul. Learn a lesson of 
Wisdom from this Wise MESSAGE from the 
LORD, that ye may not be misrepresentatives of 
the Truth, but let your words be yea or nay, 
when you know not more to say, and you will be 
obeying the Will of GOD. Do not fail to learn 
from “the DEAN of the Universe,” while HE 
is freely imparting Wisdom for the sake and the 
redemption of all humanity. FATHER, Our Su­
preme TEACHER, we thank THEE.
(The foregoing statements are those of the 
transcriber, after which FATHER sings and 
speaks as follows:)
"The people in the world, they don’ t know the 
LORD;
The people in the world, they don’ t know the 
LORD;
The people in the world, they don’t know the 
LORD;
They will not do what HE says do.”
PEACE, EVERYONE:
("Peace, FATHER DEAR!” exclaimed the 
multitude cheerfully.)I rise at this instance to say, as with that little 
composition I had already said, “The people in 
the world, they do not know the LORD; they 
will not do what GOD says do.”
The relaxation of your conscious mentality is 
the great essential, that you might know, or even 
so much as learn of ME. Just such as the last 
speaker, who has not been in touch with ME; 
one who does not know anything about ME, only 
what she knows theoretically, or what she has 
surmised in herself, will try to correct someone 
else who is going by what they see and hear.
Now as you say, you do not and have not ever 
known GOD to be married. You have never 
known HIM not to be married. Who was there 
in the beginning of the creation? Can you re 
member? Who can say definitely and prove it 
according to facts and figures that are too stout 
to be denied, that GOD has not always been mar­
ried? You talk what you know not. You know 
not the Truth. Who knows GOD’ S Business? 
For what purpose was Jesus born in the world, 
according to the Scripture?
Jesus was GOD’ S Son! Jesus as a Person be­
ing the Son of GOD, as a child there was no rec­
ord given as if though He were married; but if 
GOD was and is the FATHER, there must be a 
record as though HE were married. Although 
I did hear Christendom say, “I am married to 
Jesus, never more to depart;” what said the 
Scripture in the Prophetic Age? You read it 
for yourself: “Your MAKER is your husband.”
The New Convert Trying to Teach Others
Hereafter, do not try to talk anything you do 
not know anything about. You have just come 
into the consideration or recognition of ME, ac­
cording to your conviction; but there are others 
who have been knowing ME for years and others 
who are closely connected, might be more near, 
or nearer in information to tell something that 
would relate to things, that have happened before 
you ever heard of ME.
You take someone who has never had a con­
versation with ME—those of whom I have not 
interviewed, at times they are the very ones try­
ing to preach GOD and of His Kingdom and what 
HE has been doing since the Foundation of the 
world, and they have themselves merely just 
come into the belief and the recognition of GOD’S 
PRESENCE;  having not known from whence HE 
came, neither where HE is going.
I mention this, because it has been so errone-
36 The  NEW DAY September 1st, 1938
ously conveyed to the public at large, one say­
ing this, and the other saying the other. You 
do not know anything about GOD’S Business, 
saving as HE tells you; but yet I have told you 
and the public at large, over and over again, in­
formation necessary to warn or silence all those 
things unless you have fore-knowledge and can 
explain according to My MESSAGE which I have 
given to the children of men.
It is written in the Prophetic Age:—in other 
words, it was written in the Prophetic Age; it 
is recorded in the Scriptures: “Your MAKER is 
your husband.” I have heard you,—I mean 
Christianity—say through the ages: “I am mar­
ried to Jesus, nevermore to depart.” “The Great 
Marriage Supper of the LAMB,” it has shown 
conclusively that GOD is the FATHER of all hu­
manity, according to My Declaration which I 
AM daily making.
FATHER—MOTHER—GOD
If GOD is the FATHER, some expression, ac­
cording to the mortal version, must be an ex­
pression as though it were a mother. GOD is 
your FATHER-MOTHER-GOD, but as a symbol 
in expression as things on the material plane 
may reflect from time to time, GOD Condescends 
to reflect such symbols to the children of men, 
that they might observe HIM. So HE takes up­
on HIMSELF their infirmities and is like unto 
them, that they might be as HE is; yea, that 
they might be like HIM.
I thought I would drop these thoughts for 
your consideration. The spirit of erroneousness 
and falsity in short, will lead you erroneously at 
times, and will cause others to be led thereby, 
if you will allow such to be. “Speak that which 
you know, and testify that which you see.”
The Son of GOD did not get married. There 
is not any record where the Son of GOD was 
married; but as a prospective marriage it has 
been spoken, or has been recorded, of CHRIST, 
the LAMB to Whom you would be married. In 
a parable speaking of “the Marriage of the 
LAMB,” as being joined to CHRIST and the 
Church as individuals being members of the 
Church, or of the Kingdom, you are joined to 
CHRIST mentally and Spiritually, while the 
physical bodies at times are but the symbols of 
the reality of that which the symbol represents.
How glorious it is to know the Truth and to 
build upon a Foundation that cannot be shaken! 
Then I say, as with one thing, so with many. 
Those of you who do not know definitely what 
you are talking about, correct yourselves, for 
mortality and the mortal versions are to be elim­
inated and eradicated and dispelled, but the Spir­itual Mind of CHRIST and His Plan and Purpose 
must be established once and forever among us.
GOD Is Not in Mortality
There are many things I could say along this 
line, but I have said enough in the past from 
time to time, showing you conclusively, the Work 
and the Mission of My Activities; showing you 
enough for you to see and know, GOD is not in 
mortality, as was declared. No doubt you hear, 
or heard ME say, “Mother said just a few weeks 
ago, up until now, she has never seen anything 
in THIS TABERNACLE but GOD . . .  she has 
never seen ME as a Person to be anything but 
GOD, for she has not known ME as man; but I 
appear to be to those who are in mortal con­
sciousness as a man. To her, I AM classed as 
a man; I mean, by men; they class ME to be to 
her as a husband. She sees you to be—those 
who have never come' near ME—the same as she.
Mother sees each and every individual the same 
with ME, for she sees and knows ME to be GOD;  
yet, she knew, according to My Instruction years 
and years ago, as some have said, more than fif­
ty odd years ago: why, as she received ME as 
GOD, I, through My Condescension, received her 
as the same, but taking upon MYSELF the in­
firmities of all humanity and yet, refusing to re­
flect, humanly speaking, mortality; but estab­
lished MYSELF in her consciousness as One as 
being born in the recognition of MY PRESENCE. 
As a Sample and as an Example for others, it 
was essential for the legalization of. My Contact 
with her for the establishment of the Kingdom 
of Heaven, as GOD, through His Condescension, 
is a Sample and an Example for all the modest 
and moral of humanity.
“H e Is Everything to Me”
For this cause I lifted a standard. In that she 
contacted ME, she recognized My PRESENCE. 
From then until now she has declared and still 
declares, she has never seen My Hands or BODY 
as a man; but yet she knows I AM her Hus­
band. I AM the Husband of the ones who are 
consecrated to the Service of GOD;  men and 
women, regardless to what or who you are, if 
you are of ME, and I AM Who you say I AM;
I AM everything to you. I AM your Mother. I 
AM your Father. I AM your Sister. I AM your 
Brother. I AM your Sons and I AM your Daugh­
ters. I AM your Friends and I AM your Kin. I 
have heard you say, and all Christianity say: 
“HE is everything to me.” That is what I AM 
talking about.
Then, being everything to the different indi­
viduals, you hear a good many of you all in the 
Spirit say, through the volition of the Spirit be-
September 1st, 1938 The  NEW DAY 37
yond your personal control, “My BABY!” “MY 
CHILD!” “MY FATHER!” “MY MOTHER!” 
“MY BROTHER!” “MY SISTER!” “MY GOD!” 
Hence, the human language with all of its vo­
cabularies throughout all of the universe of civ­
ilization, is inadequate to explain just what GOD 
is to and for the children of men;  therefore, they 
have to call ME the most dear and the dearest 
thing and the most close or closest thing to their 
mind, to their understanding; the thing that they 
adore the most. They have to call ME that, 
whatsoever would be desirable and that which is 
desirable; that which is highly esteemed in their 
consideration; the most highly esteemed thing, 
according to their respective hobbies, according 
to their respective versions, according to their 
ambition and according to their calling.
'The Most Adorable Name
They call ME the highest esteemed thing that 
they can think of in their vocabularies concern­
ing those things; therefore, they have to speak 
by their own language and according to their 
own understanding, according to their own ex­
perience, and call ME by the most adorable and 
the most desirable and the most esteemed name 
in their consideration. That is why they call 
ME “BABY.” (A loud echo of laughter and 
cheers resounded from the pleased Throng.) 
Aren’ t you glad?
PEACE, EVERYONE:
(“Peace, FATHER DEAR!” shouted the mul­
titude.)
Aren’t you glad? Therefore, I AM just what­
soever they say I AM, for I AM everything that 
is good for the children of men. I AM the most 
esteemed among them. “CHRIST is rich and all 
you need, and GOD does your every hunger 
feed.” Whatsoever is desirable, whatsoever satis­
fies, I AM that SATISFIER. Aren’t you glad? 
That is why the ALLNESS of GOD is a reality, 
for matter has been eradicated. I AM dispell­
ing matter and all mortality’ s versions, and I AM 
taking full possession of all of mortality’ s inher­
itance. That is what it is all about.
Now whatsoever it is that has been and will 
be your prospective satisfier or satisfying por­
tion, I AM that, or whatsoever it has been. I AM 
filling all spaces and I AM Absent from none. 
That is the way I was to come, and that is the 
way I came. That is why they stick around 
ME so. .. .  Whatsoever it was that satisfies, what­
soever it was that you highly esteemed; whatso­
ever it would be according to your divers minds 
of expression, I AM that and the SATISFIER of 
them. I thank you.,
(All were grateful to FARTHER for this Mes­sage, and especially the “BODY Lovers,” and 
those who adoringly call the LORD all sorts of 
sweet and beautiful names. Herein their ver­
sions were endorsed and verified by the LORD. 

PART II
FATHER had already given a beautiful MES­
SAGE, one that was indeed much needed. And 
now we still remain in the Blessed Atmosphere 
of the LORD, drinking in more of this Sweet 
Water of Life. If the individuals who try to 
bind GOD would bathe in this free-flowing Foun­
tain of Knowledge, they would tap the source 
of Wisdom thereby, and would learn the signi­
ficance of freeing GOD for their own good, and 
for the good of others.
These Messages as given by the LORD on this 
date, will serve to benefit each and every individ­
ual, and educate him to know when to speak, 
how to speak, and when not to speak-and what 
not to say; for it is dangerous for any individual 
to fry to explain the mysteries of GOD, unless 
he or she speaks by the leading of CHRIST’S 
Spirit from the within, or from the approved in­
formation by the LORD, which is the Truth of 
GOD, which surpasseth the finite understanding 
of man. The relaxation of the conscious mental­
ity will result in the manifestation of the Wisdom 
of GOD. Absorb these Messages, and be a par­
taker hereof, that ye may learn of GOD and fel­
lowship with HIM. OMNIPOTENT LORD, we 
thank THEE.
(The foregoing statements are those of the 
transcriber, after which FATHER speaks as fol­
lows :)
(FATHER seated in His Chair, softly sang a 
few verses of the familiar song of Blessings to 
us, and thereafter HE arose and continued to 
speak to the masses on the subject: incorporated 
in the previous Lecture, given at 1:50 P. M., this 
same day.)
..Song by FATHER:
“One million Blessings,
Blessings flowing free,
One million Blessings,
Blessings flowing free for all.
One billion Blessings,
Blessings flowing free,
Etc.,One trillion Blessings, etc.,
One Quadrillion Blessings, etc.,
PEACE, EVERYONE:
("Peace, FATHER DEAR!’’  jubilantly echoed 
the multitude.)
What are you all waiting for? For ME to say 
something else? (Laughter and affirmation of 
this question ensued.) I will say, there are no 
limitations—not any! There are not any barriers, 
there are not any bands on GOD. GOD is IN­
FINITE by Nature and Universal in His Activi­
ties, and OMNIPRESENT in His reality; there­
fore, you cannot limit,GOD, for GOD is exempt 
from every angle expressible, much less than that 
of trying to bind GOD in some mortal version. 
“GOD cannot do this; HE cannot do that, nor 
cannot do the other.” If I. could not be married, 
I would not and could not be OMNIPRESENT. 
I AM in all expressions, I AM in all emotions. 
I AM-in all activities and I go in them for the 
purpose of bringing perfection to fruition, as a 
sample and as an example for those who are in 
them.
What would become of all of the married 
people, if GOD were not married? They would 
not have a Sample to go by: therefore, GOD, 
through His Condescension, showed them—those 
who have been and who are married—just what 
they should do, and how they should be, free 
from all mortality and all selfishness'and graft 
and all greed and all human affection and mortal 
connections; having all legality to verify the 
privilege, and to endorse it,' but yet as a Sample 
and as an Example showing you conclusively, 
such mortal privileges are in violation to the 
FUNDAMENTAL for which I stand.
GOD refuses to indulge in such an expression, 
according to the mortal versions of men; there­
fore, GOD in His Condescension, having all ac­
cess and even legally Connected, for the purpose 
of showing others they should be free and be 
not obligated nor bound to mortality and the 
mortal versions, even though they are connected 
legally. I have shown them conclusively the 
mystery; therefore, I have exhibited it for the 
purpose that all might see it and have a chance 
for redemption, by copying after the Fashion.
Oh, it is a privilege to realize GOD in the midst 
of you is Mighty to save! GOD is reaching you 
on all planes, showing you conclusively, from all 
of the different angles of, expression, GOD can 
and will be, and GOD is, in each and all of the
September 1st, 1 9 3 8 The  N E W  D A Y 39
divers expressions and angles of expression, yet 
GOD is expressing perfection and expressing 
the mastery over human affection, human ten­
dencies, fancies and pleasures, and exempt from 
all human obligations.
This is a Sample, this is an Example for you 
—those of you who have been and who are 
bound, according to the mortal version, to lift 
you above materialism, mortality and all cor­
ruption. This is a Sample, this is an Example, 
as said the Scriptures:
“HE came in the likeness of sinful flesh, 
for sin to condemn sin in the flesh.”
“HE came as the poorest among men, yet 
making many rich.’’
He came as one among men, but yet not like 
them, refusing to reflect the slightest tendencies 
of man; but yet looking somewhat like them, as 
a Sample and as an Example, that they mightcopy after this Fashion and rise above material­
ism, mortality and the mortal versions and live 
in the OMNI- and EVER-PRESENCE of your 
SAVIOUR, with GOD’S Characteristics in expres­
sion in all of your activities. I thank you.
Now look ,at ME! What do you want to look 
at ME for? (“YOU’ re Beautiful,” shouted the 
children in unison.) I hope I present a Perfect 
Mental and Spiritual Picture. I hope I demon­
strate Perfect Characteristics and a Perfect Dis­
position and a Perfect Nature and a Perfect Ex­
pression of actions in deeds and in other expres­
sions for the public to copy after. If I do, you 
may copy after that which I AM demonstrating 
and exemplifying, so far as the Mentality and 
the Characteristics and Disposition are con­
cerned; the Spirit of MY PRESENCE will be 
with you in the actuated words of My Expres­
sion. I will express with you even as I AM ex­
pressing. I thank you.


A large number of visitors were present on 
this Sunday evening and we were eagerly antici­
pating the arrival of our LORD and SAVIOUR, 
FATHER DIVINE. As FATHER is always, in 
His Infinite Love and Mercy, doing things to 
gladden the hearts of the children of men, we 
knew when He finally arrived Personally to serve 
the banquet that others had been blessed with His 
HOLY Presence. What we did not know, was 
that the March of Time news-reel had been tak­
ing moving pictures of FATHER and the,daily 
activities that surround the Work and the Mis­
sion of our Great Creator all day at the 123rd 
Street Extension.
What a wonderful privilege it will be for the 
public to be able to really see the true picture of 
this Peace Mission work as it is carried on day 
by day and week by week! And how glorious 
it will be when all the nations of the earth bow 
down in worship and thanksgiving to our Pre­
cious King for the good He has done and is now 
doing among the people of this present genera­
tion. Truly might have one said, ‘In the day of 
My Power My people shall be willing,’  Oh, ye 
nations of the earth, let us come together once 
and forever and dwell eternally in Oneness with 
our LORD, FATHER DIVINE!
THANK YOU, OUR GRACIOUS REDEEMER!
(The foregoing statements come from the 
transcriber after which FATHER Speaks as fol­
lows :)
PEACE, EVERYONE: Here we all are again 
and there I sit and stand. I Am still on active 
duty, universalizing the children of men that 
they might be one with GOD and GOD might be 
one with them. For this cause I say, “Here youall are and there I Am, there I sit and here you 
stand.” I have arisen at this particular instance 
to say, whilst we are waiting for a few more of 
the co-workers of the staff who were at the oth- 
'e r  extension, I Am going to s.ay, we have some 
visiting friends with us. As it is My custom to 
be mindful how we entertain strangers we are 
going to ask those of our visiting friends if they 
would like to have a word to say or words to say, 
they are welcome to speak. Speak volitionally if 
you wish to; if you do not care to move volition- 
ally as we do, give us your name, address or 
profession, or if we have it, permit us to intro­
duce you according to custom. I thank you !
(At this time Mr. T. M. Hamilton, an Evangelist 
and Bible instructor, took advantage of FA­
THER’ S kind invitation to. have a word to say. 
He stated that this was the first time that he had 
ever seen FATHER and that the work that FA­
THER was doing among the children of men 
was incomparable. He told how the doctors in 
Philadelphia had given him up in the year 1900 
because of lung trouble, but that he believed that 
CHRIST was the same today as always and he 
said, “When I got to believing, I received my 
healing.” He continued, saying, “When our 
bodies are in sickness, we do not need to run to 
a physician when we have the Great Physician 
of all!" Following this, FATHER rose and spoke 
as follows:)
PEACE, EVERYONE: Anyone else who would 
like to have a word to say? I would just like to 
say at this instance, we rejoice with our visiting 
friends, and also in Righteousness we can say 
we participate with them; we cooperate with 
them and we endorse them. I would like to say 
at this instance, if there are any visiting friends 
in our midst who would like to have a word to 
say, do not feel embarrassed in speaking, moving 
and expressing according to the dictates of your 
own conscience; speak according to your respec­
tive calling and according to your religious con­
viction and you will be blessed abundantly and 
I will be with you. I thank you!
(As there was hesitation on the part of the 
visitors, FATHER continued as follows; ‘ Anyone 
who wishes to speak, talk right on, we can eat
September 1st, 1936 41 The NEW DAY
and talk too.’  Several testimonies were given, 
and again FATHER, in Love and Mercy, extended 
another invitation to speak to some of the visitors 
who were apparently hesitating because of timid­
ity on their part.)
PEACE, EVERYONE: At this time I would 
like to say, it may be some more of our visiting 
friends who would like to have a word to' say. 
Even after making their mental and spiritual 
contact, those who have spoken, especially those 
of you who are spiritually inclined and spiritually 
inspired, by the spirit of GOD, you may feel led 
to speak again. If you do, move according to 
your highest intuition, for that is just the way 
the spirit will do at-times when you are speaking 
according to custom. You may speak, but by 
volition you may reveal, and the secrets of GOD 
will come forth into expression and we all will 
hear and see and know those things that were 
hid. I thank you.
(At this time FATTIER sweetly sang, in a soft 
little voice, the song, ‘Blessings flowing free, Bless­
ings flowing free; No end to the Blessings, Bless­
ings flowing free for all;’  after which Mr. T. M . 
Hamilton again arose, stating he felt moved to 
speak again, He spoke parably of being as a 
wire that is connected to the great Power House 
of Salvation and how if the wire was connected 
correctly, if you were to touch that wire, you 
would get a spark. Mr. 'Hamilton also related 
an experience he had while getting his shoes 
shined. The man said “Peace” to him and told 
how FATHER DIVINE had stopped him from 
smoking, drinking and all sorts of unclean habits 
and now he was a changed person. This made 
a deep impression on his mind, Mr. Plamilton said, 
and he wanted to know more of FATHER and 
the Peace Mission Movement. He concluded by 
saying, “You know when I hear “PEACE,” I 
know what perfect Peace is; it appeals to me 
very much, and any time I hear you say 
“PEACE,” you are going to get a response from 
me. I thank you. At the conclusion of this 
testimony, FATHER again arose, speaking to the 
multitude as follows:)
PEACE, EVERYONE: Here we all are again! 
I am still stamping in the memory of the children 
of men, GOD’S Actual Presence among them. 
I Am causing them to realize' one in all and all in 
one. That is the way you are to be, even as 
CHRIST came. I was thinking when the last 
speaker was speaking, of your experiences. In 
speaking of being the children of GOD, I believe 
they have gone so far as to make this declaration 
known: ‘ GOD is your FATHER and you never 
had another.’  With JESUS, they are denyingthe reality of a mortal father or mother; there­
fore, they are criticized for such a stand they 
have taken by following JESUS in the footsteps 
He left before them. Aren’ t you glad!
Then I say, when you are GOD’ S Child, when 
GOD is your FATHER and your MOTHER and 
you never had another, you are not bearing 
record of yourselves according to mortality, for 
you are a new creature characteristically; you 
have put off the old man with all of his deeds 
and you are now walking in the newness of life 
with Him.
Again I wish to say, this evening, at least 
tonight, being a little late getting in to serve 
the banquet, was an experience of which was 
mentioned. Cameramen from the March of Time, 
they have been busy for the last week or two 
getting a ‘check-up” on Me. As a man before 
machine guns I have been before them ; questions 
and answers have been propounded—in other 
words, they have propounded questions that con­
cern My Work and My Activities. Nevertheless, 
as I wish to say, I hope the press is here as well 
as you, My immediate Followers and Friends. 
I do not move, as a rule, according to the will 
of men, but I move and speak according to the 
will of GOD! You will not find the height of 
My standard in that which I have spoken to 
them. You will not find the LIGHT of this Un­
derstanding as I Am revealing it to the children 
of men, although you may find some sketch of 
a reflection of a percent of a fraction of a grain 
of what I have done and of what I Am doing 
and of what I Am saying, but you will not find 
the FULLNESS of the measure of it, for GOD 
cannot be defined! You cannot measure GOD 
with the measure of a man, the measure is not 
accurate enough;  it is impossible for you to meas­
ure GOD as far as the measurement of man 
goes; still there is unlimited space on the other 
side still to be revealed, for GOD is INFINITE 
by Nature and UNIVERSAL in His Activities!
The Answer to Many Questions
Oh, it is a privilege to realize, that which I 
have spoken is a reality. The question being 
asked, ‘ How do Your Followers do this, how do 
they do that and how do they do the other?’  
‘ How do You meet Your obligations?’  ‘How do 
You accomplish that which You are doing?’  If 
after the manner of men, I may speak in an 
effort according to their versions, to explain 
things to them, it is a matter of impossibility. 
As long since declared, that of which is the truth 
concerning My Work and My Mission, and I re- 
declare the same—if it is necessary to retrace 
or retract all that has been said not according
42 The  N E W  D A Y September 1st, 1938
to same, 1  have long since declared and I rede­
clare the same—
‘The SPIRIT of the Consciousness of the 
Presence of GOD is the SOURCE of all Supply!  
It can and it will SATISFY every good desire!’
Regardless of what man may say, regardless of 
the visible expression of the cooperative system 
and every other version of man as described by 
Me even. I Am declaring Myself this morning, 
as a declaration for all creation—
‘The SPIRIT of the Consciousness of the 
Presence of GOD is the SOURCE of all Supply 
and it will SATISFY every good desire.’
It will not only satisfy every good desire, but it 
DOES! The Consciousness of GOD’S Presence 
is the reproducer, the multiplier, the increaser 
and the visible-ator!  GOD, through His Pres­
ence, with the recognition of it, will make visible 
the things that are invisible, and will make tan­
gible the things that are intangible.
Waif on the Spirit
Oh! It is a privilege to know your GOD! 
For this cause I said to the men this evening— 
or last evening, whichever—if I speak volitionally 
and voluntarily, I may tell you something if you 
wait on GOD—wait patiently until the message 
comes forth volitionally. It is not mortality 
speaking, it is the SPIRIT! To tell you some­
thing theoretically according to custom, you may 
not find such in My Vocabulary, although repre­
senting all vocabularies; but if you wait patiently 
on the LORD, the Spirit of My Presence and the 
Presence of My Spirit, quickened in the hearts 
and minds of the children of men as GOD 
through His Condescension reveals Himself to 
them, I will speak mysteries and ‘reveal My Se­
crets to My Servants, the prophets.’  They will 
see Me, they will hear Me, and they will know 
Me; and that which I have spoken into consid­
eration, you will see, and even others will know 
definitely, GOD is a living reality among them! 
Oh, it is a privilege to realize the TRUTH!
I stress again for your consideration and for 
the consideration of the press and all who may 
be concerned, if it will appear as though it is a 
retraction, it is the substantiation of My words 
as I have said and I have heretofore confirmed,
‘ The SPIRIT of the Consciousness of the 
Presence of GOD is the SOURCE of all Supply 
and it can and it will and it DOES SATISFY 
every good desire.’
For this cause the accumulation and the multipli­
cation of the Spirit of the Consciousness ofGOD’ S Presence, increased and multiplied con­
tinually in the hearts and the lives of millions, 
it has accumulated and it will accumulate all 
necessary Blessings for the sustenance of the 
bodies of these people.
‘ The SPIRIT of the Consciousness of the
Presence of GOD is the SOURCE of all Supply.'
This is not a supposition; if you speak reli­
giously, I speak religiously. Did JESUS not feed 
the five thousand with two small fishes and five 
barley loaves? The same Spirit is speaking to­
day. CHRIST is not sick a-bed, neither is He 
dead. That is the mystery! For He is just as 
operative and just as expressive as He was when 
the five thousand were fed. Now tell them I 
said it! TELL THEM I SAID IT! Not only for 
these My Followers here, but elsewhere; where­
soever they are, if they are conscious of the 
Presence of GOD, every need will be bountifully 
supplied and they will actually consciously re­
alize GOD is a living factor and has become to 
be real, tangible and practical.
The Practicality of GOD
The practicality of GOD must be universally 
established, but firstly in your mentality or GOD 
will not be universally established as far as you 
are concerned. But the practicality of GOD is 
universally established when He has once been 
rightfully honored and considered and recog­
nized and established in your mentality. I men­
tion this because I do not want any of My Fol­
lowers to think this is not a fact. The Con­
sciousness of GOD’S Presence and the recogni­
tion of it will satisfy every good desire. Over 
and above every opposition, over and above every 
criticism, over and above every ‘ridiculism’  and 
accusation, GOD in His Majesty, Love and Mercy, 
with the recognition of His Presence being with 
you, will adjust matters satisfactorily and will 
satisfy every good desire. That is what it is all 
about!
This is not something mystical, and yet it is 
apparently. If you are conscious of GOD’ S Pres­
ence and create an atmosphere of the conscious­
ness of GOD’ S Presence, such an atmosphere will 
dispel doubts and fears and eradicate adverse 
and undesirable conditions and bring harmony in 
your mentality where there was negation and 
bring you peace and pleasure where there was 
chaos. Oh, how glorious it is to live in such 
a Presence, realizing GOD. in the midst of you 
once and forever is your refuge, your strength 
your help and your aid and will your ever} 
hunger feed. Just think of it! This is whal 
the consciousness of GOD’S Presence has done
September 1st, 1938 The  NEW DAY 43
It has broken down the walls of partition—the 
dividing line between races, creeds and colors, 
as they are called. It has brought the races of 
the earth in fellowship with GOD. It has caused 
them to recognize GOD’S ACTUAL PRESENCE! 
It has caused them to 'LOVE YE ONE AN­
OTHER’  whole-heartedly!
‘The SPIRIT, of the Consciousness of the 
Presence of GOD is the SOURCE of all SUP­
PLY!’
I stress this vividly for your consideration, for 
I shall stress this continually until all humanity 
recognizes it. GOD’ S PRESENCE with such a 
recognition of it, will cause you and others to 
create an atmosphere of which is the Spirit of 
the Consciousness of GOD’S PRESENCE—such 
will satisfy every good desire. That is why My 
Followers do not have to beg.
Reiterate David’s Declaration
Truly might have David declared, in his “psal- 
mic” prediction, as an assertion and a declaration 
of himself as a person,
‘The LORD is my SHEPHERD and I shall 
not want.’
Aren’ t you glad! As this being a psalmic predic­
tion according to My version, it was an assertion 
transmittible, reincarnatable and reiteratable. 
You must be in that place in consciousness where 
volitionally, voluntarily you will reiterate that 
which David declared—
‘The LORD is my SHEPHERD and I shall 
not want.’
Why are men in lacks and wants and limitations ?  
It is because they fail to recognize GOD as their 
SHEPHERD and to follow in the footsteps of 
JESUS. That is what it is all about. But when 
they realize GOD is their SHEPHERD, they too, 
as well as you, will be able to say,
‘ The LORD is my SHEPHERD and I shall 
not want. Even though I walk through the 
valley of the shadow of death, I shall fear no 
evil for Thou art with me. Thy rod and Thy 
staff they comfort me!’
That is what it is all about, dear ones.
For this cause we are rejoicing and we are 
exceedingly glad to see the fulfillment of GOD’ S 
Word in the hearts and lives of these My Fol­
lowers and the prospect of it being fulfilled in 
each and everybody. Live in this recognition, 
beloved ones! You are conscious of GOD’S PRES­
ENCE, are you not? Don’t  say it unless you 
mean it! Do not say it, I say, unless you meanit! If you are conscious of GOD’ S Presence, live 
it and express it in deeds and actions continually, 
then I will be with you now, henceforth and for­
ever. I v/ill be with you throughout ail eternity. 
I Am not bothering about what individuals say! 
I Am not bothering about what they may plan! 
ALL THE POWERS OF MAN ON THE EARTH 
PLANE AND ELSEWHERE; THEY CANNOT 
HINDER ME! I SHALL CONTINUE TO g6 ON,  
CONQUERING AND TO CONQUER, ACCOM­
PLISHING THAT FOR WHICH I CAME, IN  
THE NAME OF THE ALMIGHTY GOD!
Bodies Cannot Help or Hinder 
Now remember, as I continue to say, I must 
say continuously—when I Am Personally express­
ing in this Tabernacle, I Am expressing omnipo­
tently; I Am expressing infinitely. If I do not 
express in a body, GOD is the same with or with­
out a body; others cannot hinder GOD and bodies 
cannot hinder GOD! Aren't you glad! Bodies 
can merely express Him and reflect Kim or mani­
fest Him, but they cannot actually help H;rn.
If this Country as a nation could declare her 
independence, how about the Infinite, of Whom 
you say I Am? The Country as a nation made 
her declaration of independence; even so should 
you as individuals, as American citizens, express 
your American citizenship by bringing the 
CHRIST within you to fruition and by convert­
ing the Constitution of this Country. Oh. it is 
a privilege to know your GOD, I say! GOD in 
the midst of you is mighty to save and nought 
shall hinder, even though all earth or things that 
be, shall pass away. God is the same now and 
throughout all eternity and there shall be no 
hindrance! How glorious it is to know your 
GOD! Now do not say you know Him unless you 
do!
As the Reverend mentioned, one of the be­
lievers or followers, as a bootblack, used the 
word “Peace” and attracted his attention; even 
so shall the use of the word in the actuated words 
of expression be, until all humanity shall recog­
nize Me. It has long since been declared, and I re­
declare the same,
‘I will preach CHRIST in words, but more 
so in deeds and in actions. I will put My 
SPIRIT in them and cause them to walk in 
My Statutes.’
I Am not hanging the Ten Commandments on 
the wall or reading them to you daily, theoretical­
ly, or from an educational point of view: ‘Thou 
shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal,’  but I will put 
My SPIRIT in them and cause them to walk in 
My Statutes. Whatsoever I Am doing, I Am the 
SPIRIT, the ‘bit-  of which James was speaking,
44 The  NEW DAY September 1st, 1938
‘Behold, we put bits in horses’  mouths that 
they may obey us, and we turn the whole body 
about.’
By Transmission of the Spirit  
Now just think of it! Out of the millions and 
millions of followers, according to the statements 
given by hundreds, not one of My Followers 
would smoke a cigarette! I did not say, “Do not 
do it,” but I transmitted and reincarnated My 
Spirit; that is the way I said, “Do not do it!” I 
merely transmitted and reincarnated My Spirit. 
Aren’ t you glad! They do not feel like doing 
those-things. You do not feel like getting drunk! 
Aren’t you glad! You do not have the appetite 
nor the desire to do those things, for you are 
transformed by the renewing of your minds. 
You are no longer merely reformed as you are 
reformed in the reform schools. GOD, through 
His Condescension, is carrying you through a 
transforming process and you are transformed 
completely by the renewing of your mind and 
you are new creatures by so being!
I would like to know, how many are there 
here—I would like you to tell me by the raising 
of your hands, how many are there of you among 
us who do hot smoke cigarettes? (As a sea of 
hands went up, FATHER merrily said, ‘ Don’t say 
it unless you mean it.’  I Am not telling you, 
‘ Do not do it,’but I Am saying by past experience, 
not a one of My real Followers will do it! Aren’ t 
you glad! You are caught up out of mortality 
and mortality’ s versions. You have left the 
world behind!
How many are there here who do not drink 
intoxicating liquors? (Again the sea of hands 
was raised.) Not a one of My real Followers 
will drink intoxicating liquors, although I do not 
tell them, “Do not do it;” I merely transmit and 
reincarnate My Spirit, then they will not do it! 
Aren’ t you glad! Not one of My real Followers 
would owe a man a bill and would not pay him! 
Matters not how old the bills may be, you will go 
back and adjust matters satisfactorily as did 
he in his endeavors—Zacchaeus who climbed up 
the sycamore tree. He wished to adjust matters 
satisfactorily, did he not? Now aren’ t you glad!
A Proof of Self-denial
Now how many of you are there here who are 
doing those things and have done them? How 
many of you here are willing and ready and 
actually denying themselves of all human, mortal 
and fleshly affections? (At both questions asked 
by our LORD, a multitude of hands filled the 
air. FATHER continues:) Don’ t try to fool Me! 
PEACE, EVERYONE! There is where you find 
out whether you have made a self-denial or acomplete surrender, or whether you are living in 
the old world, for that is the hobby of the most 
of mortality!  Oh, it is a privilege to live in such 
an atmosphere! You feel good in such an atmos­
phere, do you not? You feel clean too, do you 
not? Now don’t say it unless you mean it! Don’t 
try to fool Me! If you don’ t mean it, why, you 
should not say it! If you do not mean it, do not 
say it, for My Spirit will cause you to feel it if 
you-say it and you do not feel it.
But how glorious it is to live lmsuch an atmos­
phere, where the thoughts of the children of 
GOD, as being termed the children of men, are 
clean, free from graft and free from greed, free 
from prejudice, resentment, anger and all of those 
detestable tendencies and characteristics and free 
from all selfishness and self-indulgence! Wheat 
your minds are free from those things you cast 
declare your real deliverance, even as others did. 
As I said, it is a privilege! That is the reason 
for you staying up here all night!.
I would like to say to our visiting friends, My 
Followers are up all night nearly every night. 
They are here in these different audiences; they 
do not have time to commit those old crimes they 
used to commit! If they desire to do those things, 
they do not have the time to do them. I Am the  
Satisfier of their desires! They would rather stay 
here and look at Me! But do not say it unless 
you mean it, for you are trying to adhere and 
express in the act of your actions'as though you 
LOVE Me! Don’t say it unless you mean it! It 
is MARVELOUS! I think I had better stop, for 
you have touched the live w ire;  you have touched 
the live spark, and I tell you it runs from the 
SOUL to the HEART!
The Magnetic Current
Now it is actually true! As the Reverend said 
a little while ago, there are only a few who have 
been actually quickened that can tell of the* mag­
netic current of GOD’ S Infiniteness. It is just 
like electricity. If I speak it vividly and they 
think it with Me, the reaction of such a thought 
will transmit the Spirit so forcefully to them that 
they cannot stay in their seats. Now this is not 
a supposition, it is a reality; for when I speak 
and they contact Me, why, really it is marvelous!
As with a magnet, so with this mystery; and 
as with electricity, so with it. That is the mys­
tery! If you are. not in it, you cannot tel! about 
it; but get that awakened spirit in your .heart 
and be in one accord as they were at the day 
of Pentecost— -the reaction of your thoughts will 
penetrate through all who are on that line and 
you just cannot help yourself. It is marvelous! 
Then I say, live in this recognition and as you
September 1st, 1938 The  N E W  D A Y 45
are quickened mentally and spiritually, your 
bodies will .awaken in this light of understanding 
and you will no longer have an occasion to fret 
nor worry, for you will be ONE with your SAV­
IOUR automatically if you live it and express it. 
I thank you!
PEACE, EVERYONE: Anyone else who would 
like to have a word to say? We are not goingto detain you very much longer. We have an­
other message to proof-read for the press. It 
will not detain you very long. Of course it is 
true, I know you would stay here all night if I 
stay but I do not wish to have you stay all night 
tonight. You might retire, relax a little and be 
refreshed for your daily occupation, your duties 
tomorrow. I thank you!

As the presence of a mother is all important 
to her children, even so is the PRESENCE of 
GOD to the children of men—to those who have 
recognized HIS ACTUAL EVER-PRESENCE. 
Even in homes where poverty and sickness and 
misery are known, the very presence of a mother 
is the life of that home, and by her love ex­
pressed to the unfortunate and suffering little 
ones, the suffering is made easier. GOD likewise 
is the Great SAVIOUR of men. HE is the Life 
as well as the Light of all of them. HE is 
familiar with the vicissitudes of man’ s life; there­
fore, HE is Compassionate and Merciful, always 
ready to embrace the suffering ones in His Great 
Arms of Love. For this cause, HE repeats the 
Call of Salvation to humanity, calling them from 
the world of care: ‘‘ Come unto ME, all ye that
labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you 
rest.” And here is the expression of our FA­
THER-MOTHER-GOD, comforting, consoling and 
lifting up the fallen, delivering and saving His 
Children from all temptation, and in His Precious, 
Holy BODY, HE is leading them on to Victory.
In these beautiful MESSAGES delivered by the 
LORD on this occasion, this is just the way the 
multitude of people felt, as the INFINITE SA­
VIOUR bore them up on the Wings of His Love. 
His Compassion and Mercy endureth forever. 
Here ye can feast on the Heavenly Manna, and 
find sustenance for thy body, thy mind and thy 
soul.
A great throng listened and appreciated these 
Wondrous Words of Life from the LORD, and 
it was very evident to all present that GOD, a 
real and tangible Factor, was present in His 
Holy TEMPLE, ruling and reigning supremely. 
BLESSED LORD, we humbly thank THEE.
(The foregoing statements are those of the 
transcriber, after which FATHER speaks as fol­
lows :)PEACE, EVERYONE:
(“Peace, FATHER DEAR!" responded the as­
sembly enthusiastically.)
Here you all are, and there I AM: there I sit 
and here you stand. Just as I AM, I came tread­
ing the winepress all alone. Aren't you glad? 
The ALLNESS of GOD and the nothingness of 
matter is made a living reality when the recog­
nition of GOD in you is established, when you 
can relax .your conscious mentality and rely on 
the FUNDAMENTAL whole-heartedly.
How glorious it is to live as I say, in the AC­
TUAL PRESENCE of GOD! The Works of 
GOD will exhibit GOD to you all; for “by His 
Works ye shall know HIM,” and, “it is eternal 
life to know the only true GOD.”
It is a privilege to realize, when that which you 
know is once established in you, the oppressions, 
the circumstances, the conditions and oppositions 
cannot change the situation. That which has 
been spoken into action is a living reality when 
it is rightfully established in your conscious 
mentality. When you can declare as a living 
reality the Truth concerning the mystery, you 
cannot be shaken; things and conditions cannot 
changd the situation;  therefore, I say, live in this 
recognition, for the recognition has actually lifted 
you.
Just think of it! GOD in the midst of you 
as a NAME, is quite efficient to meet every issue 
and it is efficient to adjust matters satisfactorily. 
Oh, it is a privilege I say, to realize your GOD! 
“They all shall know ME,” said HE, “from the 
least to the greatest.” The knowledge of GOD 
cometh not by observation, but as an advanced 
unfoldment of Spiritual understanding in this 
advanced Spiritual civilization, you learn daily 
and increase more and more in knowledge and 
understanding concerning things that pertain to 
the Kingdom of GOD. As the unfoldment goes 
on, after a while the full bloom of understanding 
will take place in your mentality; then and only* 
then, you will know ME distinctly. Aren’ t you 
glad?
As You Are Ready to Receive
Some have thought, and there have been ques­
tions in the minds of the people, “Why is it that 
FATHER did not unfold this mystery more dis­
tinctly years ago?” Why is it that the very 
civilization in which we are now living was not
September 1st, 1938 The  N E W  D A Y 47
advanced to the pitch and to the standard where 
it is today, thousands of years ago ? As civiliza­
tion advances, even so advance I you; I advance 
your understanding and unfold things to you. 
As you are ready to receive them, the Spirit of 
My PRESENCE is ready to reveal it.
Nature itself produces vegetation. The Hand 
of Nature working through and by the divers 
expressions of GOD’S Handiwork, produces veg­
etation, produces the divers species of animals 
in the animal kingdom. The Hand of Nature 
produces all of those things, but they come forth 
into expression as they are advanced and as the 
unfoldment of time brings them into expression. 
So it is a privilege I say, to realize just what 
GOD really means to you.
The leaves, the buds and the blossoms do not 
all come forth instantaneously. They do not all 
stay eternally, but they unfold every year and 
hourly, according to the divers species of the 
flowers and expressions of vegetation. GOD un­
folds through the Hand of Nature, the very Spirit 
of His ACTUAL PRESENCE, revealing His Mys­
teries to His children, the inhabitants of the 
earth, as being termed “the sons of men.” Those 
things are unfolded to them as civilization ad­
vances.
The Progress of Science
Men are learning more yearly about vegetation 
and the divers species of vegetation that the 
horticulturists have considered, changing the 
divers colors and grades and brands of the dif­
ferent fruits, vegetables and flowers. These things 
are unfolded as science and invention, through 
this advanced civilization, increase in knowledge 
and understanding; nevertheless, GOD is the 
same, yesterday and forever. But as man ad­
vances scientifically, mentally, Spiritually, intel­
lectually, socially and otherwise, the Spirit of 
GOD is revealing His Secrets and Mysteries unto 
them, and things are brought more open to the 
surface and to the public, that mankind might 
see them.
Just because this Light of Understanding as 
exemplified here today, has not been universally 
expanded years ago, it does not say that it has 
not always been the same; neither does it say 
that GOD has just begun. GOD did not just 
begin because the unfoldment of things to the 
children of men has just begun. GOD has al­
ways been before the Foundation of the world, 
but as the advanced Light of civilization ad­
vances, men advance scientifically, intellectually, 
mentally, Spiritually and inspirationally, and 
many different expressions of advancement un­
fold to them. They learn more concerning the 
mysteries of the Kingdom orHeaven. They learnmore daily of things pertaining to life with which 
we have to do; therefore, the mystery of GOD 
is now revealed to you.
New Beauties and Mysteries Being Unfolded 
Do not think one time, that GOD has just 
begun. The very .  Spirit of GOD’S PRESENCE 
will tell you better. Science and invention will 
tell you better. Intelligent people of today may 
know thousands of things intelligent-people did 
not know years ago. The daily and yearty. un­
foldment of things reveals new beauties, ne.w 
mysteries and new information from all of .’ the 
divers directions:  for this cause we are rejoicing 
to present to you the Light of this Understand-: 
ing that will unfold in information or in unfold- 
rnent of understanding necessary, as you, as a 
people, advance scientifically and are ..ready to  
receive it. ,?;•
GOD speaks in . the languages of the children 
of men. At the Day of Pentecost, they all spake 
with other tongues. They spoke with the tongues 
of those who were in and around Jerusalem^ 
Parably speaking of the mystery of the actuated 
words of expression, GOD speaks and expresses 
HIMSELF in the actions of the children of men,' 
in their emotions and expressions,' because they' 
can understand HIM by His speaking in' their 
respective languages. ' V ' , ‘ :-V:
If GOD would speak in your expressidhal.la,n:;' 
guage, and you, or your expressional language," 
was an expression that was not understood by:  
others, why, others could not understand GOD- 
when HE is speaking in your expressional 'lan­
guage ; but GOD will speak in your expressional' 
language, and also in the expressional language 
of others. GOD will speak in the actional lan­
guage of men, of the different actions of them, 
and “actions speak louder than words.”
GOD Has Always Been Here 
Then I say, think not within yourselves be­
cause of this great unfoldment of today, -  that 
this was or is just the beginning of the creation, 
or just the beginning of GOD’S existence, ' GOD 
has always been; as said the Scripture, “HE * -  
was in the world, and the world was made by, 
HIM, and the world knew HIM not.” I have ' 
been with you daily, and you knew ME not; but' 
as your understanding is opened, why, then'.you' 
will know ME, as with those .men who; talked 
with Jesus by the way, as being the CHRIST 
Personified. They understood it not until -they ; 
got to the table together. When they assembled-- 
around the table together, their eyes were opened,’ " - ' 
and they'could see HIM; there and then,' th£y ' 
said, “Did our hearts not burn within '“  us, , while?.; 
we talked with HIM by the way ?” ' :  •  w ..:
48 The  N E W  D A Y September 1st, 1938
Men have seen ME and have been in MY 
PRESENCE day by day; but as civilization ad­
vances and the understanding unfolds to the 
children of men, GOD, through His Condescen­
sion in the reiteration and the fulfilment of the 
prediction—in other words, the prophetic expres­
sion of Solomon:
“And HE led me up to the banqueting house, 
and the banner over us is Love.”
When this is fulfilled in the midst of you all, 
your eyes shall be opened.
Now the Banqueting House of the LORD you 
can see, for the scales of mysticism are removed 
from your eyes; therefore, you are no longer 
observing GOD superstitiously and mythologi­
cally, but you are observing GOD as a Living 
Reality. That is the mystery.
When Jesus fed the four thousand, and also on 
another occasion the five thousand, then they 
were all amazed, -for there was something done 
by the Spirit of GOD’ S ACTUAL PRESENCE 
with the material thmgs; something which they 
could plainly see and understand, that it was not 
something merely mythological. It was a living 
realitv; therefore, they were convinced to be­
lieve in His MAJESTY. They were convinced to 
believe in HIS ACTUAL PRESENCE; and as I 
aforesaid, when these boys or men, whichever, 
talked with Jesus by the way, they did not know 
HIM until He had arrived at the place where they 
were to abide, or their abode; there they met 
when they assembled in the dining room and 
were about to dine .  .  .  the Spirit was there in. 
evidence until they were so convinced to see HIM 
as HE is;  yea, they saw HIM as HE was.
Significance of the Work 
Oh, it is a privilege to observe the mystery, 
and to live in such a recognition where the Spirit 
will reveal His Secrets to His servants, the 
prophets, and you will no longer be ignorant! 
Then I say, do not think one time, because GOD 
reveals to you only partially from time to time,that GOD has not been and is not the same yes­
terday and forever. GOD is the same as HE 
will be five hundred years from today, when GOD 
shall make known HIMSELF more distinctly in 
other ways. Aren’ t you glad? But as you re­
ceive the mystery—the Message—it is revealed. 
... I mean, it is more distinctly understood as 
you are ready to receive it, and are open-minded, 
willing, and will accept of it. GOD reveals it 
that you might receive it and get more under­
standing concerning the mystery. That is the 
significance of the Work of GOD’ S PRESENCE 
among you.
I will tell you more as you are ready to receive 
it. Truly might have John said to those who 
were in and around the Jordan and in the wilder­
ness :
“Prepare ye the way of the LORD, and
make His path straight.”
If you make ready for the receiving of the un- 
foldment of the mysteries, GOD is willing and 
ready to reveal them. If you are ready to re­
ceive any information, it matters not how great 
it may be—if you are ready, GOD is ready with 
it, ready to give it, as ready as you are to re­
ceive it. Aren’ t you glad ?
You cannot be more ready tha,n GOD is. Truly 
might have one said: “Be ye also ready, for ye 
know not the hour the Son of Man cometh.” If 
you are ready, GOD is ready. I f  you are not 
ready, GOD is not ready. If you will receive 
GOD, GOD will receive you. If you will not re­
ceive GOD, GOD will not receive you. If you 
are a young sinner, GOD is a young SAVIOUR. 
If you are an old sinner, GOD is an old SA­
VIOUR. GOD will meet you on every issue and 
express HIMSELF scientifically and see that you 
understand it distinctly;' no longer to be hid in 
mysticism, but by recognizing GOD’ S ACTUAL 
PRESENCE, the things that are hidden are re­
vealed to His servants. I thank you.

Quoting- from a recent message of Father Divine in 
which He said, “Your hands should be peaceful,” Miss 
Orol Freedom announced the purpose and theme of the 
meeting last Wednesday evening at 204 W, 63rd Street 
as a program in commemoration of World Peace Day, 
which the World Fellowship of Faiths sponsored for 
Saturday, Aug. 27th, the anniversary of the Kellogg- 
Briand Peace Pact, outlawing war as an instrument of 
national policy.
Mr. Kedarnath Das Gupta, general executive of the 
World Fellowship of Faiths, was the featured speaker. 
He said, “We are all brothers and sisters, children of 
one God. God is one; men are one; truth is one. Love 
is the word nearest to the name of the “ Nameless. We 
must think peace, believe in peace, talk peace, live peace. 
We must realize we are all brothers and sisters and pray 
for peace for all." He asked that on Saturday, Aug. 
27th, everyone pray for peace; forgive all your enemies 
and live at peace with all. Miss Freedom asked if it 
would, be all right if we did it on August 27th and on 
every other day of the year as well.
Mr. M. Brahmaehari brought a message of peace, love 
and goodwill from the 360,000,000 people of India. He 
said, ' I will always cherish a great longing that all peo­
ple of all mankind may have this kind of religion that 
lifts them up to a higher state. This rhythm and music 
makes my heart leap with joy and I shall carry back 
to my people the memory of this rhythm.”
Mr. Das Gupta related an anecdote about Mahatma 
Gandhi. A Methodist Bishop asked Gandhi the secret 
of his success. Gandhi replied, “A clean heart, a clear 
conscience, a cool head and communion with God.”
State Senator Leon Fischel from the 17th Assembly 
District of New York, guest speaker, was asked to give 
his opinion concerning Father’ s proposed Five Year Real 
Estate Improvement Tax Exemption bill. He spoke as 
though his view was favorable but declined to make any 
definite statement until he had opportunity to study the 
plan and its implications from all angles.
Mr. Robert E. Lee Maxey spoke, highly endorsing Fa­
ther’ s plan and citing examples of its benefit to certain 
Pennsylvania towns which used that means of getting 
steel factories to move there.
CHRISTIANITY SHOULD ACCEPT TRUTH  
WITH CHRISTIAN SPIRIT

Now why should you come 
down here when you can go over to the Nash Company 
and get the same thing for the same money and they 
are nearer than I am. I gave you the ad to show my 
cooperation and appreciation of FATHER DIVINE 
and HIS Wonderful Work among mankind. No fol­
lower of FATHER DIVINE is on the welfare. Look 
what this alone is doing for the uplifting of mankind. 
Yes, HE stands for Righteousness. Justice and Truth; 
now what more could HE do? FATHER is the 
greatest Man the world has ever known; HE has such 
good sense and judgment. If HE could only be at 
the head of the Government, or if HE could only be 
the Governor of the State of New York, what a blessr 
ing it would be to this State. I also want FATHER 
Dj VINE to know that I have no prejudice, I have 
read some of HIS Messages and the one that was in 
•the Times the other day. Yes, you may leave the 
New Day. I will try to get time to read it. When 
my business improves, I will give you a larger ad. 
Business is very slow now. No, I have never seen 
FATHER DIVINE nor heard HIM speak. Peace."
REPORTS FROM GLORIOUS ILLUMINATION 
BRIDGEPORT, CONN.