 "The Letter Killeth" 
" A  minister of the Ne w Covenant: not of the 
letter, but of the Spirit: for the letter killeth, 
but the Spirit giveth life"— 2 Corinthians 3:6. 
 There is a great lesson in this  but it is often sadly misapplie d to the detriment of holiness 
and encouragement of looseness. I n the first place, we should n ote very particularly that the 
Scriptures never speak of the commands of Christ as the "letter  that killeth." Rather Jesus 
says— 
"The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life"  (John 6:63). 
The "letter that killeth" was the Mosaic Law —the "law of carnal commandments"—
designed specifically to expose a nd manifest man's sinful, rebe llious nature, and to humble 
him before his Almighty and Hol y Maker. And even then we must b e very careful how we  
look upon the letter of this Law, for the Law was "holy, just and good"  (Rom. 7:12). Jesus 
said (Matt. 23:23)— 
"This (the spirit of the Law)  ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other (the 
letter)  undone." 
He condemned them—not for obeyi ng the letter—but for glorifying  the letter to the 
exclusion and neglect of the spirit  which the letter was intende d to develop and teach. To the 
Ephesian ecclesia, the S pirit says (Rev. 2:2-5)— 
"I know thy works, and thy labor, and thy patience . . . But— thou hast left thy first 
love . .  Repent or I will come and remove thy candlestick." 
There is the letter without the spirit. If love is not the moti ve force, then works, labor, and 
patience are not only useless , but are obnoxious to God, for th ey just glorify the flesh. 
Therefore God cannot acknowledge  a candlestick —no matter how br ight—that is shining by 
its own self-glorifying efforts, and not truly and consciously by the power of the Spirit of 
God. 
Whatever we are doing, the moment  we let slip the consciousness  that God gives all the 
increase, and that all power, both to will and to do, is of God —then we cease to serve God or 
to be of any value to Him because w e cease to glorify Him, and begin to glorify ourselves. 
*          *          * 
We must have a viewpoint regardi ng the "letter that killeth" th at does not do dishonor to 
God's holy Law given through Mos es, nor to God's own eternal go odness and kindness as 
manifested in all His work s, including that Law. 
Killing, or death, is always by and through SIN. Therefore the killing part of the letter 
must be due to man, the sinner. P aul explains clearly how the l etter kills (Rom. 7:9-13)— 
"For I was alive without the Law once . . .” 
—that is before he reached the  age of knowledge and responsibil ity—before the Law and 
all its lessons and implicati ons broke upon his consciousness— 
“. . . but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died. And the 
commandment, which was ordained to life, I  found to be unto death . 
"For SIN, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew me. "The Law is holy, just and good. Was then that which is Good made death unto me?  
2 
 God forbid. But SIN, that it might appear si n, WORKING DEATH IN ME by that which is 
good." 
That is how "the letter kille th." When we look into it and get the true picture of what it 
means, we find no justification at all  for the very popular orthodox i nterpretation of this 
passage—that carefulness to obser ve the letter of God's law kil ls, and we can quite safely 
ignore the "letter of the  law" if we fulfill what we think  is the "spirit  of the law." 
This is a very common, but ve ry unsound and dangerous interpret ation, very pleasing to 
the self-will of the flesh. It is  particularly dangerous becaus e this thought is so deeply 
ingrained into this pass age in the world's eyes that we are apt  quite unconsciously to adopt 
the world's view. 
But the true meaning does not conve y this thought at all—by the  letter of God's Holy Law 
man was and is condemned—that is the whole purpose  of the Law, as Paul explains in 
writing to the Romans; then by God' s grace man is redeemed from  condemnation, and given 
the power, by the Spirit, to ful fill the required righteousness  of the Law by Jesus Christ. 
The Law of Moses, says Paul (2 C or. 3:7), was a "ministration o f death." Why? 
Because— 
"Israel could not look to the end"  (v. 13). 
Moses' face shone with the glor y of God, and Israel was afraid to look at him, and he had 
to cover his face—he had to conceal  the glory that was the end of the Law —the "end" of 
the Law in two senses that are  really one: for that glory manif ested both the Law's 
termination  and the Law's whole object and purpose . 
The Law itself was "ordained to life," as we have seen from Pau l's remarks in Rom. 7. In 
what way was a "ministration of death " ordained to life? 
It brought death  that it might lead to life . It brought humility that it might lead to 
exaltation. Paul says it was a schoolmaster . What were the lessons that it taught? 
First of all, it taught God's in finite majesty and holiness; th en it taught sin's sinfulness and 
ugliness, and man's helplessness  because of the power of sin; a nd then it taught God's 
abounding love and mercy in the pro viding of the way to life th rough sacrifice and 
forgiveness. This is what Paul i s endeavoring to show to the Ro man brethren—the beautiful 
and essential place of the Law i n the all-wise Divine pattern o f salvation in Christ Jesus. 
But they "could not look to the end."  Because of the veil of the flesh they could not see 
the glory of the Spirit. They c ould not see Christ, who was the  end and purpose and whole 
living meaning of every type a nd ordinance of the Law. 
The holy, and just, and good Law awakened in them no recognitio n of their weakness and 
helplessness and need—their need f or the Saviour, the God-provi ded Lamb, the great High 
Priest, the Mercyseat (or “Pla ce of Mercy”), the Laver of Purif ication, the Altar of Sacrifice 
and the Altar of Prayer. They fe lt no need—and so the beautiful  Law that God had given 
them failed—through the self-satis fied blindness of the flesh. But it did not really fail. 
*          *          * 
“The letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life.” 
The law of Christ must be applied in the Spirit  of Christ. This holy, flesh-mortifying law, 
applied in any other way than the  loving, humble spirit of Chri st, is a terrible, destroying 
thing. 
But still the law must be applied  It must be honored and upheld. We are doing Christ no  
3 
 service when we slur  over his law in a mis taken application of what we consider love and 
mercy on the plea that the “letter killeth.” There is nothing killing about the letter of Christ’s 
law, properly understood and applied. R ather we die without it. 
It should  never be necessary for an ecclesia  to enforce Christ’s law. It  should never be 
necessary to apply the command— 
“If thy brother trespass, rebuke him.” 
It should  never be necessary to apply— 
“Put away from yourselves that wicked person.” 
The law of Christ was never mean t to be applied in this way. It  was meant rather to be 
received in every minute detail eagerly and lovingly and anxiously  by every one who takes 
upon himself the great and holy Name of Jesus. 
Why is it that the transforming gl ories of this holy and Divine  law are so often received 
so reluctantly among us? The answ er lies in the deceitfulness o f the flesh and the earthy, 
downward pull of the natural, animal mind. 
James calls this law the “perf ect law of liberty” (Jas. 1:25). A deeper and more accurate 
description could not be devised. H ere are three interwoven and  inseparable principles—
perfection, law, and liberty . How—we may ask in our natural ignorance—how can there be 
liberty  as long as there is law? Is not an imposed law restriction , and is not liberty freedom 
from restriction ? 
But the mind of the Spirit reveals to us that there can never be true liberty without perfect 
obedience to perfect law . Jesus said— 
“Come unto me; learn to be free by submitting to my yoke”  (John 8:32; Matt. 11:29). 
Those that heard him answered i n their darkness, “We want no yo ke. We ARE free. We 
have never been in bondage” (John 8: 33). But Jesus said to them  (v.34)— 
“Whosoever committeth sin is the slave of sin .” 
All men are miserable, helpless slaves until Christ’s law and p ower sets them free from 
the power of sin within themselves. What is sin? “Sin,” says John, “is transgression of Divine 
law” (1 John 1:3-4)—anything out o f harmony with the Divine wil l and way. And sin is 
slavery unto death. 
So there is no perfect freedom  outside of perfect  obedience to God’s perfect law. Any 
deviation from that line means—t o just that extent—slavery and loss of true liberty. 
Whenever we yield to the desire s of the flesh, we are not (as w e proudly fancy) enjoying our 
freedom—we are rather publicl y confessing our miserable slavery  to an evil, dominating, 
gloating master, who finally mocks us with the wages of death f or our craven service to him. 
Just looking ahead a few verses in this 3rd chapter of 2nd Cor., we see that Paul says (v. 17)— 
“Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there  is liberty.” 
Liberty from Law? No. We cannot ha ve liberty without law. We ca nnot be free without 
knowing and fulfilling the law, although the more freely we acc ept the law and the more we 
absorb it within us and adjust our  lives to its w isdom and ligh t, the less it becomes law. Law, 
we are told (1 Tim. 1:9)— 
“Is not for the righteous, but fo r the lawless and disobedient.” 
 Is this a contradiction to what  we have seen about the “perfec t law of liberty?” No. We 
are all “lawless” to begin with—law is to create  the righteous man. But to those who hunger  
4 
 and thirst after righteousness , it is not law, but wisdom; it h as no penalties, but only blessings. 
*          *          * 
The ministration of condemnation w as glorious (v.9). Where was its glory? In the face of 
Moses, the mediator  of that law (v.7). But it was a fading glory; there was nothin g permanent 
about it; it was a surface, super-imposed glory—a temporary man ifestation of God’s glory—a 
shadowy type of the eternal “glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ”  (2 Cor. 4:6). 
Why was it in Moses’ face? B ecause he had appeared before God t o plead on their behalf 
(Ex. 32:11), and through Moses God forgave them and accepted th em and entered into a 
covenant of life w ith them (Ex. 34:9-10). 
They had, by transgression, forfe ited God’s blessing, and had m ade themselves subject to 
His righteous and necessary judgment on sin. God was about to d estroy them, but the fervent, 
effectual prayer of a righteous man saved them. 
Someone was found for whose sake G od could righteously forgive them, and allow mercy 
to triumph over justice without  destroying or violating justice . So their glory was in the face 
of Moses their savior, who brought them a law from God that cou ld lead them back to life. 
But they could not see where the glory of the Law lay . They could not see to the end of 
the Law (vs. 13-14). 
 "For Christ is the end of the Law for everyone that hath faith." 
That is, the discerning eye of f aith. They lacked it, and there fore they failed. Whether 
they fought against the Law or whe ther they set themselves to o bey every jot and tittle, still 
they failed. 
The letter killed them, either one way or the other, because th ey worshipped and glorified 
the letter as an end in itself . The law was given to teach them the great wisdom of humility—
to lead them to recognize their  helplessness and need. They use d it to feed their pride and 
gratify their self-sufficiency. 
They forgot the great and culmin ating yearly sacrifice for sin.  . .burned "without the 
camp." 
Are we ever so foolish as to measure our selves against the perfect la w of holiness with 
even a passing flash of self-satisfaction? Let us look to the end , and not fail like blind Israel. 
The end and purpose of the law is still the same—to teach us ou r natural helplessness and to 
lead us to the power of God in Chr ist, as Paul so beautifully d escribes in the last verse— 
“We all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of  the Lord, are changed 
into the same image from glory to glory, even as BY THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD." 
The law of Christ is given so that weak, ugly, animal man may b e led to a gradual 
transformation by the power of the  Spirit into the image of Chr ist. 
It is only while, by constant effort, we are keeping our minds and thoughts directly 
focused on the Divine glory in the face of Jesus that essential  process of spiritual 
transformation occurs. As soon as we look away, it stops. 
Unhappily, it is only too possible to be in an ecclesia for yea rs and years in a stagnant, 
preoccupied, self-satisfied state, and never make any progress in spiritual transformation. How 
much closer are we to this Divine image than we were a year ago ? How much have we grown 
in godliness? How much better do w  comprehend—and manifest bef ore men—the mind of 
Christ? It is relatively easy to " talk the Truth" to others, bu t how much of its true and gentle 
and holy spirit do we show  to them in our lives? That is "preaching the Truth"  in its fullness.  
5 
 What we call "doctrine" (alt hough actually it is an artificial distinction, for all teaching 
and commands are doctrine)—what we  call "doctrin e" is truly imp ortant, yea, it is essential, 
but dead "doctrine" without the living spirit of hol iness and love is but an ugly repulsive, 
rattling skeleton. 
What about those of us who have  supposedly bee n going thr ough t his glorious, spiritual 
transforming process for 10, 20, 30, 4 0, or 50 or more years? W hat results have we to show? 
For in the end the sole test of  the value and success of our li ves will be— Has this process 
really occurred within us? 
Paul says (v. 4, next ch.) speaking of some— 
"In whom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest 
the light of the glorious Go spel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto 
them." 
Belief is a matter of action and way of life , not of words and profession, as James so 
searchingly points out. Is it possible that we are among those unfortunates whom the god of 
this world (the veil of the fle sh) has blinded, so that we are missing in our lives the Divine, 
transforming glories of Christ?— 
"If our Gospel be hid  (veiled— it is the same word), it is hid to them that are lost"  (v. 
3). 
It is so easy to have the Gos pel, but to be veiled from its pow er. Israel is our great lesson 
to teach humility and carefulness.  Though expos ed to the direct  glories of the Law for 
hundreds and hundreds of years —though memorizing and conte nding about every jot and 
tittle—they never reached the goal to which the Law was intende d to lead them, because they 
had a "veil upon their heart." 
The veil, of course, is the fles h—the motions of the flesh—bloc king off the vision of, and 
entrance into, the Most Holy Place. Christ alone was able to se ize this veil in strong, 
Divinely-guided hands, and t ear it from top to bottom— from top to bottom —the power was 
from above. 
It was death for any but the Hi gh Priest to enter the Holy of H olies It was death to even 
look with open face upon the Ark, as 50,000 men of Bethshemesh proved at the cost of their 
lives (1 Sam. 6:19). But Paul says (Heb. 10:19)— 
"Having therefore boldness to enter into  the Holiest, by the blood of Jesus." 
Boldness to enter into the Holiest ! Boldness—not presumptio n or brazenness, but loving, 
intimate confidence and assurance—to look with open face upon t he glory of God in the face 
of Jesus Christ, the living Ark! Paul says (v. 12)— 
"Seeing then we have such hope, we use great plainness  (marg: boldness) of speech."  
Great boldness of speech—in two w ays: first, speaking confident ly and intimately of holy 
things that Israel hardly dared to mention, and second, speakin g with great plainness and ser-
iousness about the tremendous r esponsibilitie s involved. 
Do we realize the great and fear ful holiness of our calling? Do  we forget the elaborate 
carefulness and sanctification i n all details that was required  of the High Priest when he 
entered the Most Holy, "that he die not?" And n ot only at that time, but at all times: Every 
thing had to be exactly as God specified —not because there was any int rinsic importance in 
the ritual itself, but because of  the great importance of caref ulness and obedience in the 
realities of character that these shadows typified.  
6 
 What do these things typify? What is t he essential reality they teach?  Can we "see to the 
end?" Or shall we, too, fail? God said, as the smoke of His ang er still arose from the burnt 
bodies of Nadab and Abihu (Lev. 10:3)— 
"I will be sanctified in them that come nigh Me, and before all the people I will be 
glorified." 
God has not changed. We have assem bled ourselves into ecclesias  solely for the purpose 
of sanctifying and glorifyi ng God, and drawing nigh unto Him in  the sight of a ll the people. 
We claim to be a genuine epistle  of Christ written to men by th e Spirit of God. This is the 
figure Paul uses in the early ve rses of this chapter. As such, we must cleanse ourselves from 
all filthiness of flesh and spi rit—all unclean and worldly habi ts and ways of thought. 
If our claim to be a genuine epis tle written by the power of th e Spirit is justified by the 
actual facts , there is no more glorious and b eautiful thing than such an as sembly, all knit 
together in love, all seeking God's glory and each other's welf are, all submitting to each other 
and striving earnestly to avoid doin g anything that would mar the m utual holiness, or 
distress one another . 
Let us dwell upon this last thought —the sincere a nd Christlike desire to avoid grieving or 
offending our brethren. There ar e many powerful arguments again st worldly things, habits, 
and activities, but none more power ful than Paul's beautiful de claration: 
"While the world standeth, I will not do anything that w ill offend or distress my 
brother." 
Truly such a body of people is an "ep istle of Christ written by  the Spirit of the living 
God"—a peculiar people, a hol y nation, a royal priesthood, crea ted and ordained of God for 
the purpose of good works to the  honor and glory of His Name. 
Nothing is sadder than when—with all the external  necessities prepared and supplied—
all the "doctrine"—all the ecclesial framework and organization —this divine ideal fails to 
materialize in its spiritual beau ty because the v eil of the fle sh interposes, and there is coldness 
and darkness and pettiness and smallness where the marvelous li ght of God's glory should be 
flooding and permeating all. 
*           *          * 
"We have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of 
God and not of us"  (I Cor. 4:7). 
The vessel exists solely to cont ain and display the treasure. T he vessel has no value or 
glory or purpose in itself. The vessel is intentionally made valueless and weak.  It was 
essential that Paul should be weak and poor and despised and bu ffeted, as was his Master 
before him. This was necessary to his value to God, and his fel lowship with Christ, and so he 
"gloried in his infirmities," perceiving the Divine wisdom behi nd them. 
No one was swayed by Paul's orat ory; no one was attracted by hi s wealth; no one was 
awed by his position or worldly abi lity. To the natural man he carried not a spark of influence 
or authority. He was, a s he said (1 Cor. 4:13)— 
"As the filth of the world, and th e offscouring of all things."  
Purposely, in the wisdom of G od, he possessed nothing to attrac t the natural man. But to 
those few among men who discerned r eal and spiritual values, th is insignificant wanderer on 
the Roman highways brought a tr easure of eternal and inestimabl e worth. These were the 
ones into whose hearts God had shined (v. 6)—  
7 
 "God hath shined in our hearts, to give  the light of the knowledge  of the glory of God 
in the face of Jesus Christ." 
No one should ever be the same again, once God has shined into their hearts the light of 
His glory. All bitterness and selfishness should be melted away . All smallness and pettiness 
and interest in present things should disappear. 
For what else can be compared w ith the shining of God's own glory into a man's heart, 
relating him to a splendid and e ternal order of things, and sta rting forces in motion within 
him that will lead him upward a nd upward until he stands in imm ortal and resplendent glory, 
clothed with the Divine nature? 
Paul grasped the overwhelming r eality of these things, and live d every moment of his life 
completely saturated with this spiritual atmosphere. Little won der, then, that he could say, 
quite simply and unaffectedly, even amid a life of almost unpar alleled suffering and 
tribulation (v. 17): 
"Our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding 
and eternal weight of glory." 
"Though our outward man perish,"  he says (v. 16), "yet the inward man is renewed 
day by day." 
The outlook of Paul is always refreshingly exalted and spiritua l. The great majority are so 
much more concerned about the w elfare, comfort and appearance o f the perishing outward 
man; but Paul had clearer vision, and he calls to all down thro ugh the ages into whose hearts 
the all-sufficient glory of God has shined (v. 18)— 
"We look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen: for 
the things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not  seen are eternal." 
Let us endeavor to live wholly i n this wholesome, spiritual atm osphere with Paul, 
viewing all things from the eter nal viewpoint and keeping the c leansing glory of God shining 
into our hearts. There are eternal things—things that the  natural eye sees  not—glorious, 
endless things that are offe red to us freely. Paul says in v. 1 5— 
"All things are for your sakes , that the abundant grace might through the 
thanksgiving of many redound to the glory of God. 
"All things are for your sakes . . .All things are yours . . .the world, or life, or death, 
or things present, or things to come— all are yours, and ye are Christ's,  and Christ is 
God's."  
Why, then, with this priceless gl ory of God streaming freely in to our hearts, should we sit 
down among the ashes  and seek after emp ty, ear thy things?  
—G. V. Growcott 
 
 